

[ Gradle ](https://docs.gradle.org "Gradle Docs")

User Manual

  * Community Open Community Menu

[ Community Home ](https://gradle.org/)

[ Community Forums ](https://discuss.gradle.org/)

[ Community Plugins ](https://plugins.gradle.org)

  * [Training](https://gradle.com/training/)
  * News Open Community Menu

[ Newsletter ](https://newsletter.gradle.com)

[ Blog ](https://blog.gradle.org)

[ Twitter ](https://twitter.com/gradle)

  * [Enterprise](https://gradle.com)
  * [github](https://github.com/gradle/gradle "Gradle on GitHub")

  * [Docs Home](../userguide/userguide.html)
  * [Samples](../samples/index.html)
  * [Release Notes](../release-notes.html)
  * Gradle DSLs and API
    * [Javadoc](../javadoc/index.html?overview-summary.html)
    * [Groovy DSL Reference](../dsl/index.html)
    * [Groovy DSL Primer](../userguide/groovy_build_script_primer.html)
    * [Kotlin DSL API](https://gradle.github.io/kotlin-dsl-docs/api/)
    * [Kotlin DSL Primer](../userguide/kotlin_dsl.html)
    * [Groovy to Kotlin DSL Migration](../userguide/migrating_from_groovy_to_kotlin_dsl.html)

### User Manual

[ PDF ](../userguide/userguide.pdf)

  * [What is Gradle?](../userguide/what_is_gradle.html)
  * [Getting Started](../userguide/getting_started.html)
  * [Installing Gradle](../userguide/installation.html)
  * Upgrading Gradle...
    * [version 6.X to latest](../userguide/upgrading_version_6.html)
    * [version 5.X to 6.0](../userguide/upgrading_version_5.html)
    * [version 4.X to 5.0](../userguide/upgrading_version_4.html)
    * [Gradle's Feature Lifecycle](../userguide/feature_lifecycle.html)
  * Migrating to Gradle...
    * [from Maven](../userguide/migrating_from_maven.html)
    * [from Ant](../userguide/migrating_from_ant.html)
  * [Compatibility Notes](../userguide/compatibility.html)
  * [Troubleshooting Builds](../userguide/troubleshooting.html)

### Running Gradle Builds

  * Customizing Execution
    * [Configuring the Build Environment](../userguide/build_environment.html)
    * [Configuring the Gradle Daemon](../userguide/gradle_daemon.html)
    * [Using Initialization Scripts](../userguide/init_scripts.html)
  * [Executing Multi-Project Builds](../userguide/intro_multi_project_builds.html)
  * [Inspecting Gradle Builds](https://scans.gradle.com/)
  * Using the Build Cache
    * [Enabling and Configuring](../userguide/build_cache.html)
    * [Why use the Build Cache?](../userguide/build_cache_use_cases.html)
    * [Understanding the Impact](../userguide/build_cache_performance.html)
    * [Learning Basic Concepts](../userguide/build_cache_concepts.html)
    * [Caching Java Project](../userguide/caching_java_projects.html)
    * [Caching Android Project](../userguide/caching_android_projects.html)
    * [Debugging Caching Issues](../userguide/build_cache_debugging.html)
    * [Troubleshooting](../userguide/common_caching_problems.html)
  * Optimizing Build Times
    * [Improving Performance of Gradle Builds](../userguide/performance.html)
    * [Using the Configuration Cache](../userguide/configuration_cache.html)

### Authoring Gradle Builds

  * Learning the Basics
    * [Writing Build Scripts](../userguide/tutorial_using_tasks.html)
    * [Working with Tasks](../userguide/more_about_tasks.html)
    * [Learning More About Build Scripts](../userguide/writing_build_scripts.html)
    * [Working with Files](../userguide/working_with_files.html)
    * [Using Gradle Plugins](../userguide/plugins.html)
    * [Understanding the Build Lifecycle](../userguide/build_lifecycle.html)
    * [Working with Logging](../userguide/logging.html)
    * [Avoiding Traps](../userguide/potential_traps.html)
  * Structuring Individual Builds
    * [Creating a Basic Multi-Project Build](../userguide/multi_project_builds.html)
    * [Declaring Dependencies between Subprojects](../userguide/declaring_dependencies_between_subprojects.html)
    * [Sharing Build Logic between Subprojects](../userguide/sharing_build_logic_between_subprojects.html)
    * [Fine Tuning the Project Layout](../userguide/fine_tuning_project_layout.html)
    * [Understanding Configuration and Execution](../userguide/multi_project_configuration_and_execution.html)
  * Structuring Software Products
    * [Structuring large Projects](../userguide/structuring_software_products.html)
    * [Tweaking Project Structure](../userguide/structuring_software_products_details.html)
    * [Composing Builds](../userguide/composite_builds.html)
  * Authoring Sustainable Builds
    * [Organizing Build Logic](../userguide/organizing_gradle_projects.html)
    * [Following Best Practices](../userguide/authoring_maintainable_build_scripts.html)
  * Advanced Techniques
    * [Testing a Build with TestKit](../userguide/test_kit.html)
    * [Using Ant from Gradle](../userguide/ant.html)

### Authoring JVM Builds

  * [Building Java & JVM projects](../userguide/building_java_projects.html)
  * [Testing Java & JVM projects](../userguide/java_testing.html)
  * [Toolchains for Java projects](../userguide/toolchains.html)
  * [Managing Dependencies](../userguide/dependency_management_for_java_projects.html)
  * JVM Plugins
    * [Java Library Plugin](../userguide/java_library_plugin.html)
    * [Java Application Plugin](../userguide/application_plugin.html)
    * [Java Platform Plugin](../userguide/java_platform_plugin.html)
    * [Groovy Plugin](../userguide/groovy_plugin.html)
    * [Scala Plugin](../userguide/scala_plugin.html)

### Authoring C++/Swift Builds

  * [Building C++ projects](../userguide/building_cpp_projects.html)
  * [Testing C++ projects](../userguide/cpp_testing.html)
  * [Building Swift projects](../userguide/building_swift_projects.html)
  * [Testing Swift projects](../userguide/swift_testing.html)

### Working with Dependencies

  * Learning the Basics
    * [What is Dependency Management?](../userguide/core_dependency_management.html)
    * [Declaring Repositories](../userguide/declaring_repositories.html)
    * [Declaring Dependencies](../userguide/declaring_dependencies.html)
    * [Understanding Library and Application Differences](../userguide/library_vs_application.html)
    * [Viewing and Debugging Dependencies](../userguide/viewing_debugging_dependencies.html)
    * [Understanding Resolution](../userguide/dependency_resolution.html)
    * [Verifying dependencies](../userguide/dependency_verification.html)
  * Declaring Versions
    * [Declaring Versions and Ranges](../userguide/single_versions.html)
    * [Declaring Rich Versions](../userguide/rich_versions.html)
    * [Handling Changing Versions](../userguide/dynamic_versions.html)
    * [Locking Versions](../userguide/dependency_locking.html)
  * Controlling Transitives
    * [Upgrading Versions](../userguide/dependency_constraints.html)
    * [Downgrading and Excluding](../userguide/dependency_downgrade_and_exclude.html)
    * [Sharing Versions](../userguide/platforms.html)
    * [Aligning Dependencies](../userguide/dependency_version_alignment.html)
    * [Handling Mutually Exclusive Dependencies](../userguide/dependency_capability_conflict.html)
    * [Fixing Metadata](../userguide/component_metadata_rules.html)
    * [Customizing Resolution](../userguide/resolution_rules.html)
    * [Preventing accidental upgrades](../userguide/resolution_strategy_tuning.html)
  * Producing and Consuming Variants of Libraries
    * [Declaring Capabilities of a Library](../userguide/component_capabilities.html)
    * [Modeling Feature Variants and Optional Dependencies](../userguide/feature_variants.html)
    * [Understanding Variant Selection](../userguide/variant_model.html)
    * [Declaring Variant Attributes](../userguide/variant_attributes.html)
    * [Sharing Outputs of Projects](../userguide/cross_project_publications.html)
    * [Transforming Artifacts](../userguide/artifact_transforms.html)
  * Publishing Libraries
    * [Setting up Publishing](../userguide/publishing_setup.html)
    * [Understanding Gradle Module Metadata](../userguide/publishing_gradle_module_metadata.html)
    * [Signing Artifacts](../userguide/publishing_signing.html)
    * [Customizing Publishing](../userguide/publishing_customization.html)
    * [Maven Publish Plugin](../userguide/publishing_maven.html)
    * [Ivy Publish Plugin](../userguide/publishing_ivy.html)
  * [Terminology](../userguide/dependency_management_terminology.html)

### Extending Gradle

  * Developing Gradle Plugins
    * [Starting Plugin Development](../userguide/custom_plugins.html)
    * [Designing Plugins](../userguide/designing_gradle_plugins.html)
    * [Implementing Plugins](../userguide/implementing_gradle_plugins.html)
    * [Testing Plugins](../userguide/testing_gradle_plugins.html)
    * [Publishing Plugins](../userguide/publishing_gradle_plugins.html)
  * Developing Gradle Tasks
    * [Writing Gradle Task Types](../userguide/custom_tasks.html)
    * [Configuring Tasks Lazily](../userguide/lazy_configuration.html)
    * [Avoiding Unnecessary Task Configuration](../userguide/task_configuration_avoidance.html)
    * [Developing Parallel Tasks](../userguide/worker_api.html)
  * [Writing Custom Gradle Types](../userguide/custom_gradle_types.html)

### Reference

  * [Core Plugins](../userguide/plugin_reference.html)
  * [Command-Line Interface](../userguide/command_line_interface.html)
  * Gradle & Third-party Tools
    * [Third-party Tools](../userguide/third_party_integration.html)
    * [Jenkins](../userguide/jenkins.html)
    * [TeamCity](../userguide/teamcity.html)
    * [Travis CI](../userguide/travis-ci.html)
  * [](../userguide/third_party_integration.html)
  * [The Gradle Wrapper](../userguide/gradle_wrapper.html)
  * [Gradle-managed Directories](../userguide/directory_layout.html)

# The Groovy Plugin

version 6.9-20201126230040+0000

Contents

  * Usage
  * Tasks
  * Project layout
  * Dependency management
  * Automatic configuration of groovyClasspath
  * Convention properties
  * Source set properties
  * GroovyCompile
  * Incremental Groovy compilation
  * Compiling and testing for Java 6 or Java 7

The Groovy plugin extends the [Java plugin](java_plugin.html) to add support
for [Groovy](https://groovy-lang.org/) projects. It can deal with Groovy code,
mixed Groovy and Java code, and even pure Java code (although we don't
necessarily recommend to use it for the latter). The plugin supports _joint
compilation_ , which allows you to freely mix and match Groovy and Java code,
with dependencies in both directions. For example, a Groovy class can extend a
Java class that in turn extends a Groovy class. This makes it possible to use
the best language for the job, and to rewrite any class in the other language
if needed.

Note that if you want to benefit from the [API / implementation
separation](java_library_plugin.html#sec:java_library_separation), you can
also apply the `java-library` plugin to your Groovy project.

## Usage

To use the Groovy plugin, include the following in your build script:

Example 1. Using the Groovy plugin

build.gradle

    
    
    plugins {
        id 'groovy'
    }

build.gradle.kts

    
    
    plugins {
        groovy
    }

## Tasks

The Groovy plugin adds the following tasks to the project. Information about
altering the dependencies to Java compile tasks are found
[here](building_java_projects.html#sec:building_jvm_lang).

`compileGroovy` —
[GroovyCompile](../dsl/org.gradle.api.tasks.compile.GroovyCompile.html)

    

_Depends on_ : `compileJava`

Compiles production Groovy source files.

`compileTestGroovy` —
[GroovyCompile](../dsl/org.gradle.api.tasks.compile.GroovyCompile.html)

    

_Depends on_ : `compileTestJava`

Compiles test Groovy source files.

`compile _SourceSet_ Groovy` —
[GroovyCompile](../dsl/org.gradle.api.tasks.compile.GroovyCompile.html)

    

_Depends on_ : `compile _SourceSet_ Java`

Compiles the given source set's Groovy source files.

`groovydoc` — [Groovydoc](../dsl/org.gradle.api.tasks.javadoc.Groovydoc.html)

    

Generates API documentation for the production Groovy source files.

The Groovy plugin adds the following dependencies to tasks added by the Java
plugin.

Table 1. Groovy plugin - additional task dependencies Task name | Depends on  
---|---  
  
`classes`

|

`compileGroovy`  
  
`testClasses`

|

`compileTestGroovy`  
  
`_sourceSet_ Classes`

|

`compile _SourceSet_ Groovy`  
  
![groovyPluginTasks](img/groovyPluginTasks.png)

Figure 1. Groovy plugin - tasks

## Project layout

The Groovy plugin assumes the project layout shown in Groovy Layout. All the
Groovy source directories can contain Groovy _and_ Java code. The Java source
directories may only contain Java source code.[1] None of these directories
need to exist or have anything in them; the Groovy plugin will simply compile
whatever it finds.

`src/main/java`

    

Production Java source.

`src/main/resources`

    

Production resources, such as XML and properties files.

`src/main/groovy`

    

Production Groovy source. May also contain Java source files for joint
compilation.

`src/test/java`

    

Test Java source.

`src/test/resources`

    

Test resources.

`src/test/groovy`

    

Test Groovy source. May also contain Java source files for joint compilation.

`src/ _sourceSet_ /java`

    

Java source for the source set named _sourceSet_.

`src/ _sourceSet_ /resources`

    

Resources for the source set named _sourceSet_.

`src/ _sourceSet_ /groovy`

    

Groovy source files for the given source set. May also contain Java source
files for joint compilation.

### Changing the project layout

Just like the Java plugin, the Groovy plugin allows you to configure custom
locations for Groovy production and test source files.

Example 2. Custom Groovy source layout

build.gradle

    
    
    sourceSets {
        main {
            groovy {
                srcDirs = ['src/groovy']
            }
        }
    
        test {
            groovy {
                srcDirs = ['test/groovy']
            }
        }
    }

build.gradle.kts

    
    
    sourceSets {
        main {
            withConvention(GroovySourceSet::class) {
                groovy {
                    setSrcDirs(listOf("src/groovy"))
                }
            }
        }
    
        test {
            withConvention(GroovySourceSet::class) {
                groovy {
                    setSrcDirs(listOf("test/groovy"))
                }
            }
        }
    }

## Dependency management

Because Gradle's build language is based on Groovy, and parts of Gradle are
implemented in Groovy, Gradle already ships with a Groovy library.
Nevertheless, Groovy projects need to explicitly declare a Groovy dependency.
This dependency will then be used on compile and runtime class paths. It will
also be used to get hold of the Groovy compiler and Groovydoc tool,
respectively.

If Groovy is used for production code, the Groovy dependency should be added
to the `implementation` configuration:

Example 3. Configuration of Groovy dependency

build.gradle

    
    
    repositories {
        mavenCentral()
    }
    
    dependencies {
        implementation 'org.codehaus.groovy:groovy-all:2.4.15'
    }

build.gradle.kts

    
    
    repositories {
        mavenCentral()
    }
    
    dependencies {
        implementation("org.codehaus.groovy:groovy-all:2.4.15")
    }

If Groovy is only used for test code, the Groovy dependency should be added to
the `testImplementation` configuration:

Example 4. Configuration of Groovy test dependency

build.gradle

    
    
    dependencies {
        testImplementation 'org.codehaus.groovy:groovy-all:2.4.15'
    }

build.gradle.kts

    
    
    dependencies {
        testImplementation("org.codehaus.groovy:groovy-all:2.4.15")
    }

To use the Groovy library that ships with Gradle, declare a `localGroovy()`
dependency. Note that different Gradle versions ship with different Groovy
versions; as such, using `localGroovy()` is less safe then declaring a regular
Groovy dependency.

Example 5. Configuration of bundled Groovy dependency

build.gradle

    
    
    dependencies {
        implementation localGroovy()
    }

build.gradle.kts

    
    
    dependencies {
        implementation(localGroovy())
    }

The Groovy library doesn't necessarily have to come from a remote repository.
It could also come from a local `lib` directory, perhaps checked in to source
control:

Example 6. Configuration of Groovy file dependency

build.gradle

    
    
    repositories {
        flatDir { dirs 'lib' }
    }
    
    dependencies {
        implementation module('org.codehaus.groovy:groovy:2.4.15') {
            dependency('org.ow2.asm:asm-all:5.0.3')
            dependency('antlr:antlr:2.7.7')
            dependency('commons-cli:commons-cli:1.2')
            module('org.apache.ant:ant:1.9.4') {
                dependencies('org.apache.ant:ant-junit:1.9.4@jar',
                             'org.apache.ant:ant-launcher:1.9.4')
            }
        }
    }

build.gradle.kts

    
    
    repositories {
        flatDir { dirs("lib") }
    }
    
    dependencies {
        implementation(module("org.codehaus.groovy:groovy:2.4.15") {
            dependency("org.ow2.asm:asm-all:5.0.3")
            dependency("antlr:antlr:2.7.7")
            dependency("commons-cli:commons-cli:1.2")
            module("org.apache.ant:ant:1.9.4") {
                dependencies("org.apache.ant:ant-junit:1.9.4@jar",
                             "org.apache.ant:ant-launcher:1.9.4")
            }
        })
    }

## Automatic configuration of groovyClasspath

The `GroovyCompile` and `Groovydoc` tasks consume Groovy code in two ways: on
their `classpath`, and on their `groovyClasspath`. The former is used to
locate classes referenced by the source code, and will typically contain the
Groovy library along with other libraries. The latter is used to load and
execute the Groovy compiler and Groovydoc tool, respectively, and should only
contain the Groovy library and its dependencies.

Unless a task's `groovyClasspath` is configured explicitly, the Groovy (base)
plugin will try to infer it from the task's `classpath`. This is done as
follows:

  * If a `groovy-all(-indy)` Jar is found on `classpath`, that jar will be added to `groovyClasspath`.

  * If a `groovy(-indy)` jar is found on `classpath`, and the project has at least one repository declared, a corresponding `groovy(-indy)` repository dependency will be added to `groovyClasspath`.

  * Otherwise, execution of the task will fail with a message saying that `groovyClasspath` could not be inferred.

Note that the “`-indy`” variation of each jar refers to the version with
`invokedynamic` support.

## Convention properties

The Groovy plugin does not add any convention properties to the project.

## Source set properties

The Groovy plugin adds the following convention properties to each source set
in the project. You can use these properties in your build script as though
they were properties of the source set object.

### Groovy Plugin — source set properties

`groovy` —
[SourceDirectorySet](../dsl/org.gradle.api.file.SourceDirectorySet.html)
(read-only)

    

_Default value_ : Not null

The Groovy source files of this source set. Contains all `.groovy` and `.java`
files found in the Groovy source directories, and excludes all other types of
files.

`groovy.srcDirs` — `Set<File>`

    

_Default value_ : `[ _projectDir_ /src/ _name_ /groovy]`

The source directories containing the Groovy source files of this source set.
May also contain Java source files for joint compilation. Can set using
anything described in [Specifying Multiple
Files](working_with_files.html#sec:specifying_multiple_files).

`allGroovy` — [FileTree](../javadoc/org/gradle/api/file/FileTree.html) (read-
only)

    

_Default value_ : Not null

All Groovy source files of this source set. Contains only the `.groovy` files
found in the Groovy source directories.

These properties are provided by a convention object of type
[GroovySourceSet](../dsl/org.gradle.api.tasks.GroovySourceSet.html).

The Groovy plugin also modifies some source set properties:

### Groovy Plugin - modified source set properties

Property name | Change  
---|---  
  
`allJava`

|

Adds all `.java` files found in the Groovy source directories.  
  
`allSource`

|

Adds all source files found in the Groovy source directories.  
  
## GroovyCompile

The Groovy plugin adds a
[GroovyCompile](../dsl/org.gradle.api.tasks.compile.GroovyCompile.html) task
for each source set in the project. The task type shares much with the
`JavaCompile` task by extending `AbstractCompile` (see [the relevant Java
Plugin section](building_java_projects.html#sec:compile)). The `GroovyCompile`
task supports most configuration options of the official Groovy compiler. The
task can also leverage the [Java toolchain support](toolchains.html).

Table 2. Groovy plugin - GroovyCompile properties Task Property | Type |
Default Value  
---|---|---  
  
`classpath`

|

[FileCollection](../javadoc/org/gradle/api/file/FileCollection.html)

|

`_sourceSet_.compileClasspath`  
  
`source`

|

[FileTree](../javadoc/org/gradle/api/file/FileTree.html). Can set using
anything described in [Specifying Multiple
Files](working_with_files.html#sec:specifying_multiple_files).

|

`_sourceSet_.groovy`  
  
`destinationDir`

|

`File`.

|

`_sourceSet_.groovy.outputDir`  
  
`groovyClasspath`

|

[FileCollection](../javadoc/org/gradle/api/file/FileCollection.html)

|

`groovy` configuration if non-empty; Groovy library found on `classpath`
otherwise  
  
`javaLauncher`

|

`Property<JavaLauncher>`, see the [toolchain documentation](toolchains.html).

|

None but will be configured if a toolchain is defined on the `java` extension.  
  
### Compilation avoidance

_Caveat: Groovy compilation avoidance is an incubating feature since Gradle
5.6. There are known inaccuracies so please enable it at your own risk._

To enable the incubating support for Groovy compilation avoidance, add a
[`enableFeaturePreview`](../javadoc/org/gradle/api/initialization/Settings.html#enableFeaturePreview-
java.lang.String-) to your settings file:

settings.gradle

    
    
    enableFeaturePreview('GROOVY_COMPILATION_AVOIDANCE')

settings.gradle.kts

    
    
    enableFeaturePreview("GROOVY_COMPILATION_AVOIDANCE")

If a dependent project has changed in an
[ABI](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Application_binary_interface)-compatible
way (only its private API has changed), then Groovy compilation tasks will be
up-to-date. This means that if project `A` depends on project `B` and a class
in `B` is changed in an ABI-compatible way (typically, changing only the body
of a method), then Gradle won't recompile `A`.

See [Java compile avoidance](java_plugin.html#sec:java_compile_avoidance) for
a detailed list of the types of changes that do not affect the ABI and are
ignored.

However, similar to Java's annotation processing, there are various ways to
[customize the Groovy compilation
process](https://melix.github.io/blog/2011/05/12/customizing_groovy_compilation_process.html),
for which implementation details matter. Some well-known examples are [Groovy
AST transformations](https://groovy-
lang.org/metaprogramming.html#_code_generation_transformations). In these
cases, these dependencies must be declared separately in a classpath called
`astTransformationClasspath`:

Example 7. Declaring AST transformations

build.gradle

    
    
    configurations { astTransformation }
    dependencies {
        astTransformation(project(":ast-transformation"))
    }
    tasks.withType(GroovyCompile).configureEach {
        astTransformationClasspath.from(configurations.astTransformation)
    }

build.gradle.kts

    
    
    val astTransformation by configurations.creating
    dependencies {
        astTransformation(project(":ast-transformation"))
    }
    tasks.withType<GroovyCompile>().configureEach {
        astTransformationClasspath.from(astTransformation)
    }

## Incremental Groovy compilation

Since 5.6, Gradle introduces an experimental incremental Groovy compiler. To
enable incremental compilation for Groovy, you need:

  * Enable Groovy compilation avoidance.

  * Explicitly enable incremental Groovy compilation in the build script:

Example 8. Enable incremental Groovy compilation

buildSrc/src/main/groovy/myproject.groovy-conventions.gradle

    
    
    tasks.withType(GroovyCompile).configureEach {
        options.incremental = true
    }

buildSrc/src/main/kotlin/myproject.groovy-conventions.gradle.kts

    
    
    tasks.withType<GroovyCompile>().configureEach {
        options.isIncremental = true
    }

This gives you the following benefits:

  * Incremental builds are much faster.

  * If only a small set of Groovy source files are changed, only the affected source files will be recompiled. Classes that don't need to be recompiled remain unchanged in the output directory. For example, if you only change a few Groovy test classes, you don't need to recompile all Groovy test source files — only the changed ones need to be recompiled.

To understand how incremental compilation works, see [Incremental Java
compilation](java_plugin.html#sec:incremental_compile) for a detailed
overview. Note that there're several differences from Java incremental
compilation:

  * Unlike Java, Groovy compiler doesn't inline constants, thus changes to constants won't trigger a full recompilation.

  * Groovy compiler doesn't keep `@Retention` in generated annotation class bytecode ([GROOVY-9185](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/GROOVY-9185)), thus all annotations are `RUNTIME`. This means that changes to source-retention annotations won't trigger a full recompilation.

### Known issues

Also see [Known issues for incremental Java
compilation](java_plugin.html#sec:incremental_compilation_known_issues).

  * Changes to resources won't trigger a recompilation, this might result in some incorrectness — for example [Extension Modules](https://mrhaki.blogspot.com/2013/01/groovy-goodness-adding-extra-methods.html).

## Compiling and testing for Java 6 or Java 7

With [toolchain support](toolchains.html) added to `GroovyCompile`, it is
possible to compile Groovy code using a different Java version than the one
running Gradle. If you also have Java source files, this will also configure
`JavaCompile` to use the right Java compiler is used, as can be seen in the
[Java plugin](building_java_projects.html#sec:java_cross_compilation)
documentation.

### Example: Configure Java 7 build for Groovy

build.gradle

    
    
    java {
        toolchain {
            languageVersion = JavaLanguageVersion.of(7)
        }
    }

build.gradle.kts

    
    
    java {
        toolchain {
            languageVersion.set(JavaLanguageVersion.of(7))
        }
    }

* * *

1. Gradle uses the same conventions as introduced by Russel Winder's [Gant tool](https://gant.github.io/). 

**Docs**

  * [User Manual](/userguide/userguide.html)
  * [DSL Reference](/dsl/)
  * [Release Notes](/release-notes.html)
  * [Javadoc](/javadoc/)

**News**

  * [Blog](https://blog.gradle.org/)
  * [Newsletter](https://newsletter.gradle.com/)
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/gradle)
  * [Status Page](https://status.gradle.com/)

**Products**

  * [Build Scans](https://gradle.com/build-scans/)
  * [Build Cache](https://gradle.com/build-cache/)
  * [Enterprise Docs](https://gradle.com/enterprise/resources/)

**Get Help**

  * [Forums](https://discuss.gradle.org/c/help-discuss)
  * [GitHub](https://github.com/gradle/)
  * [Training](https://gradle.com/training/)
  * [Services](https://gradle.org/services/)

##### Stay `UP-TO-DATE` on new features and news

By entering your email, you agree to our
[Terms](https://gradle.com/legal/terms-of-service/) and [Privacy
Policy](https://gradle.com/legal/privacy/), including receipt of emails. You
can unsubscribe at any time.

Subscribe

© [Gradle Inc.](https://gradle.com) 2020 All rights reserved.

[ gradle ](/)

[Careers](https://gradle.com/careers/) |
[Privacy](https://gradle.com/legal/privacy/) | [Terms of
Service](https://gradle.com/legal/terms-of-service/) |
[Contact](https://gradle.org/contact/)

