

[ Gradle ](https://docs.gradle.org "Gradle Docs")

User Manual

  * Community Open Community Menu

[ Community Home ](https://gradle.org/)

[ Community Forums ](https://discuss.gradle.org/)

[ Community Plugins ](https://plugins.gradle.org)

  * [Training](https://gradle.com/training/)
  * News Open Community Menu

[ Newsletter ](https://newsletter.gradle.com)

[ Blog ](https://blog.gradle.org)

[ Twitter ](https://twitter.com/gradle)

  * [Enterprise](https://gradle.com)
  * [github](https://github.com/gradle/gradle "Gradle on GitHub")

  * [Docs Home](../userguide/userguide.html)
  * [Samples](../samples/index.html)
  * [Release Notes](../release-notes.html)
  * Gradle API
    * [Javadoc](../javadoc/index.html?overview-summary.html)
    * [Groovy DSL Reference](../dsl/index.html)
    * [Groovy DSL Primer](../userguide/groovy_build_script_primer.html)
    * [Kotlin DSL API](https://gradle.github.io/kotlin-dsl-docs/api/)
    * [Kotlin DSL Primer](../userguide/kotlin_dsl.html)

### User Manual

[ PDF ](../userguide/userguide.pdf)

  * [What is Gradle?](../userguide/what_is_gradle.html)
  * [Getting Started](../userguide/getting_started.html)
  * [Installing Gradle](../userguide/installation.html)
  * Upgrading Gradle...
    * [version 6.X to latest](../userguide/upgrading_version_6.html)
    * [version 5.X to 6.0](../userguide/upgrading_version_5.html)
    * [version 4.X to 5.0](../userguide/upgrading_version_4.html)
    * [Gradle's Feature Lifecycle](../userguide/feature_lifecycle.html)
  * Migrating to Gradle...
    * [from Maven](../userguide/migrating_from_maven.html)
    * [from Ant](../userguide/migrating_from_ant.html)
  * [Compatibility Notes](../userguide/compatibility.html)
  * [Troubleshooting Builds](../userguide/troubleshooting.html)

### Running Gradle Builds

  * Customizing Execution
    * [Configuring the Build Environment](../userguide/build_environment.html)
    * [Configuring the Gradle Daemon](../userguide/gradle_daemon.html)
    * [Using Initialization Scripts](../userguide/init_scripts.html)
  * [Executing Multi-Project Builds](../userguide/intro_multi_project_builds.html)
  * [Inspecting Gradle Builds](https://scans.gradle.com/)
  * Optimizing Build Times
    * [Build Performance Guide](https://guides.gradle.org/performance/)
    * [Enabling and Configuring the Build Cache](../userguide/build_cache.html)
    * [Using the Configuration Cache](../userguide/configuration_cache.html)

### Authoring Gradle Builds

  * Learning the Basics
    * [Introducing the Basics of Build Scripts](../userguide/tutorial_using_tasks.html)
    * [Working with Tasks](../userguide/more_about_tasks.html)
    * [Learning More About Build Scripts](../userguide/writing_build_scripts.html)
    * [Working with Files](../userguide/working_with_files.html)
    * [Using Gradle Plugins](../userguide/plugins.html)
    * [Understanding the Build Lifecycle](../userguide/build_lifecycle.html)
    * [Working with Logging](../userguide/logging.html)
    * [Avoiding Traps](../userguide/potential_traps.html)
  * Authoring Multi-Project Builds
    * [Creating a Basic Multi-Project Build](../userguide/multi_project_builds.html)
    * [Declaring Dependencies between Subprojects](../userguide/declaring_dependencies_between_subprojects.html)
    * [Sharing Build Logic between Subprojects](../userguide/sharing_build_logic_between_subprojects.html)
    * [Fine Tuning the Project Layout](../userguide/fine_tuning_project_layout.html)
    * [Understanding Configuration and Execution](../userguide/multi_project_configuration_and_execution.html)
  * Authoring Sustainable Builds
    * [Organizing Build Logic](../userguide/organizing_gradle_projects.html)
    * [Following Best Practices](../userguide/authoring_maintainable_build_scripts.html)
  * Advanced Techniques
    * [Developing Parallel Tasks](https://guides.gradle.org/using-the-worker-api/)
    * [Testing a Build with TestKit](../userguide/test_kit.html)
    * [Using Ant from Gradle](../userguide/ant.html)

### Authoring JVM Builds

  * [Building Java & JVM projects](../userguide/building_java_projects.html)
  * [Testing Java & JVM projects](../userguide/java_testing.html)
  * [Toolchains for Java projects](../userguide/toolchains.html)
  * [Managing Dependencies](../userguide/dependency_management_for_java_projects.html)
  * JVM Plugins
    * [Java Library Plugin](../userguide/java_library_plugin.html)
    * [Java Application Plugin](../userguide/application_plugin.html)
    * [Java Platform Plugin](../userguide/java_platform_plugin.html)
    * [Groovy Plugin](../userguide/groovy_plugin.html)
    * [Scala Plugin](../userguide/scala_plugin.html)

### Authoring C++/Swift Builds

  * [Building C++ projects](../userguide/building_cpp_projects.html)
  * [Testing C++ projects](../userguide/cpp_testing.html)
  * [Building Swift projects](../userguide/building_swift_projects.html)
  * [Testing Swift projects](../userguide/swift_testing.html)

### Working with Dependencies

  * Learning the Basics
    * [What is Dependency Management?](../userguide/core_dependency_management.html)
    * [Declaring Repositories](../userguide/declaring_repositories.html)
    * [Declaring Dependencies](../userguide/declaring_dependencies.html)
    * [Understanding Library and Application Differences](../userguide/library_vs_application.html)
    * [Viewing and Debugging Dependencies](../userguide/viewing_debugging_dependencies.html)
    * [Understanding Resolution](../userguide/dependency_resolution.html)
    * [Verifying dependencies](../userguide/dependency_verification.html)
  * Declaring Versions
    * [Declaring Versions and Ranges](../userguide/single_versions.html)
    * [Declaring Rich Versions](../userguide/rich_versions.html)
    * [Handling Changing Versions](../userguide/dynamic_versions.html)
    * [Locking Versions](../userguide/dependency_locking.html)
  * Controlling Transitives
    * [Upgrading Versions](../userguide/dependency_constraints.html)
    * [Downgrading and Excluding](../userguide/dependency_downgrade_and_exclude.html)
    * [Sharing Versions](../userguide/platforms.html)
    * [Aligning Dependencies](../userguide/dependency_version_alignment.html)
    * [Handling Mutually Exclusive Dependencies](../userguide/dependency_capability_conflict.html)
    * [Fixing Metadata](../userguide/component_metadata_rules.html)
    * [Customizing Resolution](../userguide/resolution_rules.html)
    * [Preventing accidental upgrades](../userguide/resolution_strategy_tuning.html)
  * Producing and Consuming Variants of Libraries
    * [Declaring Capabilities of a Library](../userguide/component_capabilities.html)
    * [Modeling Feature Variants and Optional Dependencies](../userguide/feature_variants.html)
    * [Understanding Variant Selection](../userguide/variant_model.html)
    * [Declaring Variant Attributes](../userguide/variant_attributes.html)
    * [Sharing Outputs of Projects](../userguide/cross_project_publications.html)
    * [Transforming Artifacts](../userguide/artifact_transforms.html)
  * Working in a Multi-repo Environment
    * [Composing Builds](../userguide/composite_builds.html)
  * Publishing Libraries
    * [Setting up Publishing](../userguide/publishing_setup.html)
    * [Understanding Gradle Module Metadata](../userguide/publishing_gradle_module_metadata.html)
    * [Signing Artifacts](../userguide/publishing_signing.html)
    * [Customizing Publishing](../userguide/publishing_customization.html)
    * [Maven Publish Plugin](../userguide/publishing_maven.html)
    * [Ivy Publish Plugin](../userguide/publishing_ivy.html)
  * [Terminology](../userguide/dependency_management_terminology.html)

### Extending Gradle

  * [Plugin Development Tutorials](https://gradle.org/guides/?q=Plugin%20Development)
  * [Writing Gradle Task Types](../userguide/custom_tasks.html)
  * [Writing Gradle Plugins](../userguide/custom_plugins.html)
  * [Writing Custom Gradle Types](../userguide/custom_gradle_types.html)
  * [Configuring Tasks Lazily](../userguide/lazy_configuration.html)
  * [Using Task Configuration Avoidance](../userguide/task_configuration_avoidance.html)

### Reference

  * [Core Plugins](../userguide/plugin_reference.html)
  * [Command-Line Interface](../userguide/command_line_interface.html)
  * [Gradle & Third-party Tools](../userguide/third_party_integration.html)
  * [The Gradle Wrapper](../userguide/gradle_wrapper.html)
  * [Gradle-managed Directories](../userguide/directory_layout.html)

# Understanding the difference between libraries and applications

version 6.7.1

Contents

  * Producers vs consumers
  * Producer variants
  * Strong encapsulation
  * Being respectful of consumers

## Producers vs consumers

A key concept in dependency management with Gradle is making the difference
between consumers and producers.

When you _build_ a library, you are effectively on the _producer_ side: you
are producing _artifacts_ which are going to be _consumed_ by someone else,
the _consumer_.

A lot of problems with traditional build systems is that they don't make the
difference between a producer and a consumer.

A _consumer_ needs to be understood in the large sense:

  * a project that depends on another project is a _consumer_

  * a _task_ that depends on an artifact is a finer grained consumer

In dependency management, a lot of the decisions we make depend on the type of
project we are building, that is to say, what kind of _consumer_ we are.

## Producer variants

A producer may want to generate different artifacts for different kinds of
consumers: for the same source code, different _binaries_ are produced. Or, a
project may produce artifacts which are for consumption by other projects
(same repository) but not for external use.

A typical example in the Java world is the Guava library which is published in
different versions: one for Java projects, and one for Android projects.

However, it's the consumer responsibility to tell what version to use, and
it's the dependency management engine responsibility to ensure _consistency of
the graph_ (for example making sure that you don't end up with both Java and
Android versions of Guava on your classpath). This is where the [variant
model](variant_model.html) of Gradle comes into play.

In Gradle, _producer variants_ are exposed via [consumable
configurations](declaring_dependencies.html#sec:resolvable-consumable-
configs).

## Strong encapsulation

In order for a producer to compile a library, it needs all its _implementation
dependencies_ on the compile classpath. There are dependencies which are only
required _as an implementation detail_ of the library and there are libraries
which are effectively part of the API.

However, a library _depending_ on this produced library only needs to "see"
the public API of your library and therefore the dependencies of this API.
It's a subset of the compile classpath of the producer: this is strong
encapsulation of dependencies.

The consequence is that a dependency which is assigned to the `implementation`
configuration of a library _does not end up on the compile classpath of the
consumer_. On the other hand, a dependency which is assigned to the `api`
configuration of a library _would end up on the compile classpath of the
consumer_. At _runtime_ , however, all dependencies are required. Gradle makes
the difference between different kinds of consumer even within a single
project: the Java compile task, for example, is a different consumer than the
Java exec task.

More details on the segregation of API and runtime dependencies in the Java
world [can be found here](java_library_plugin.html).

## Being respectful of consumers

Whenever, as a developer, you decide to include a dependency, you must
understand that there are _consequences for your consumers_. For example, if
you add a dependency to your project, it becomes a _transitive dependency_ of
your consumers, and therefore may participate in conflict resolution if the
consumer needs a different version.

A lot of the problems Gradle handles are about fixing the mismatch between the
expectations of a consumer and a producer.

However, some projects are easier than others:

  * if you are at the end of the consumption chain, that is to say you build an _application_ , then there are effectively _no consumer_ of your project (apart from final customers): adding [exclusions](dependency_downgrade_and_exclude.html#sec:excluding-transitive-deps) will have no other consequence than fixing your problem.

  * however if you are a library, adding [exclusions](dependency_downgrade_and_exclude.html#sec:excluding-transitive-deps) may prevent consumers from working properly, because they would exercise a path of the code that you don't

Always keep in mind that the solution you choose to fix a problem can "leak"
to your consumers. This documentation aims at guiding you to find the right
solution to the right problem, and more importantly, make decisions which help
the resolution engine to take the right decisions in case of conflicts.

**Docs**

  * [User Manual](/userguide/userguide.html)
  * [DSL Reference](/dsl/)
  * [Release Notes](/release-notes.html)
  * [Javadoc](/javadoc/)

**News**

  * [Blog](https://blog.gradle.org/)
  * [Newsletter](https://newsletter.gradle.com/)
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/gradle)
  * [Status Page](https://status.gradle.com/)

**Products**

  * [Build Scans](https://gradle.com/build-scans/)
  * [Build Cache](https://gradle.com/build-cache/)
  * [Enterprise Docs](https://gradle.com/enterprise/resources/)

**Get Help**

  * [Forums](https://discuss.gradle.org/c/help-discuss)
  * [GitHub](https://github.com/gradle/)
  * [Training](https://gradle.com/training/)
  * [Services](https://gradle.org/services/)

##### Stay `UP-TO-DATE` on new features and news

By entering your email, you agree to our
[Terms](https://gradle.com/legal/terms-of-service/) and [Privacy
Policy](https://gradle.com/legal/privacy/), including receipt of emails. You
can unsubscribe at any time.

Subscribe

© [Gradle Inc.](https://gradle.com) 2020 All rights reserved.

[ gradle ](/)

[Careers](https://gradle.com/careers/) |
[Privacy](https://gradle.com/legal/privacy/) | [Terms of
Service](https://gradle.com/legal/terms-of-service/) |
[Contact](https://gradle.org/contact/)

