

[ Gradle ](https://docs.gradle.org "Gradle Docs")

User Manual

  * Community Open Community Menu

[ Community Home ](https://gradle.org/)

[ Community Forums ](https://discuss.gradle.org/)

[ Community Plugins ](https://plugins.gradle.org)

  * [Training](https://gradle.com/training/)
  * News Open Community Menu

[ Newsletter ](https://newsletter.gradle.com)

[ Blog ](https://blog.gradle.org)

[ Twitter ](https://twitter.com/gradle)

  * [Enterprise](https://gradle.com)
  * [github](https://github.com/gradle/gradle "Gradle on GitHub")

  * [Docs Home](../userguide/userguide.html)
  * [Samples](../samples/index.html)
  * [Release Notes](../release-notes.html)
  * Gradle API
    * [Javadoc](../javadoc/index.html?overview-summary.html)
    * [Groovy DSL Reference](../dsl/index.html)
    * [Groovy DSL Primer](../userguide/groovy_build_script_primer.html)
    * [Kotlin DSL API](https://gradle.github.io/kotlin-dsl-docs/api/)
    * [Kotlin DSL Primer](../userguide/kotlin_dsl.html)

### User Manual

[ PDF ](../userguide/userguide.pdf)

  * [What is Gradle?](../userguide/what_is_gradle.html)
  * [Getting Started](../userguide/getting_started.html)
  * [Installing Gradle](../userguide/installation.html)
  * Upgrading Gradle...
    * [version 6.X to latest](../userguide/upgrading_version_6.html)
    * [version 5.X to 6.0](../userguide/upgrading_version_5.html)
    * [version 4.X to 5.0](../userguide/upgrading_version_4.html)
    * [Gradle's Feature Lifecycle](../userguide/feature_lifecycle.html)
  * Migrating to Gradle...
    * [from Maven](../userguide/migrating_from_maven.html)
    * [from Ant](../userguide/migrating_from_ant.html)
  * [Compatibility Notes](../userguide/compatibility.html)
  * [Troubleshooting Builds](../userguide/troubleshooting.html)

### Running Gradle Builds

  * Customizing Execution
    * [Configuring the Build Environment](../userguide/build_environment.html)
    * [Configuring the Gradle Daemon](../userguide/gradle_daemon.html)
    * [Using Initialization Scripts](../userguide/init_scripts.html)
  * [Executing Multi-Project Builds](../userguide/intro_multi_project_builds.html)
  * [Inspecting Gradle Builds](https://scans.gradle.com/)
  * Optimizing Build Times
    * [Build Performance Guide](https://guides.gradle.org/performance/)
    * [Enabling and Configuring the Build Cache](../userguide/build_cache.html)
    * [Using the Configuration Cache](../userguide/configuration_cache.html)

### Authoring Gradle Builds

  * Learning the Basics
    * [Introducing the Basics of Build Scripts](../userguide/tutorial_using_tasks.html)
    * [Working with Tasks](../userguide/more_about_tasks.html)
    * [Learning More About Build Scripts](../userguide/writing_build_scripts.html)
    * [Working with Files](../userguide/working_with_files.html)
    * [Using Gradle Plugins](../userguide/plugins.html)
    * [Understanding the Build Lifecycle](../userguide/build_lifecycle.html)
    * [Working with Logging](../userguide/logging.html)
    * [Avoiding Traps](../userguide/potential_traps.html)
  * Authoring Multi-Project Builds
    * [Creating a Basic Multi-Project Build](../userguide/multi_project_builds.html)
    * [Declaring Dependencies between Subprojects](../userguide/declaring_dependencies_between_subprojects.html)
    * [Sharing Build Logic between Subprojects](../userguide/sharing_build_logic_between_subprojects.html)
    * [Fine Tuning the Project Layout](../userguide/fine_tuning_project_layout.html)
    * [Understanding Configuration and Execution](../userguide/multi_project_configuration_and_execution.html)
  * Authoring Sustainable Builds
    * [Organizing Build Logic](../userguide/organizing_gradle_projects.html)
    * [Following Best Practices](../userguide/authoring_maintainable_build_scripts.html)
  * Advanced Techniques
    * [Developing Parallel Tasks](https://guides.gradle.org/using-the-worker-api/)
    * [Testing a Build with TestKit](../userguide/test_kit.html)
    * [Using Ant from Gradle](../userguide/ant.html)

### Authoring JVM Builds

  * [Building Java & JVM projects](../userguide/building_java_projects.html)
  * [Testing Java & JVM projects](../userguide/java_testing.html)
  * [Toolchains for Java projects](../userguide/toolchains.html)
  * [Managing Dependencies](../userguide/dependency_management_for_java_projects.html)
  * JVM Plugins
    * [Java Library Plugin](../userguide/java_library_plugin.html)
    * [Java Application Plugin](../userguide/application_plugin.html)
    * [Java Platform Plugin](../userguide/java_platform_plugin.html)
    * [Groovy Plugin](../userguide/groovy_plugin.html)
    * [Scala Plugin](../userguide/scala_plugin.html)

### Authoring C++/Swift Builds

  * [Building C++ projects](../userguide/building_cpp_projects.html)
  * [Testing C++ projects](../userguide/cpp_testing.html)
  * [Building Swift projects](../userguide/building_swift_projects.html)
  * [Testing Swift projects](../userguide/swift_testing.html)

### Working with Dependencies

  * Learning the Basics
    * [What is Dependency Management?](../userguide/core_dependency_management.html)
    * [Declaring Repositories](../userguide/declaring_repositories.html)
    * [Declaring Dependencies](../userguide/declaring_dependencies.html)
    * [Understanding Library and Application Differences](../userguide/library_vs_application.html)
    * [Viewing and Debugging Dependencies](../userguide/viewing_debugging_dependencies.html)
    * [Understanding Resolution](../userguide/dependency_resolution.html)
    * [Verifying dependencies](../userguide/dependency_verification.html)
  * Declaring Versions
    * [Declaring Versions and Ranges](../userguide/single_versions.html)
    * [Declaring Rich Versions](../userguide/rich_versions.html)
    * [Handling Changing Versions](../userguide/dynamic_versions.html)
    * [Locking Versions](../userguide/dependency_locking.html)
  * Controlling Transitives
    * [Upgrading Versions](../userguide/dependency_constraints.html)
    * [Downgrading and Excluding](../userguide/dependency_downgrade_and_exclude.html)
    * [Sharing Versions](../userguide/platforms.html)
    * [Aligning Dependencies](../userguide/dependency_version_alignment.html)
    * [Handling Mutually Exclusive Dependencies](../userguide/dependency_capability_conflict.html)
    * [Fixing Metadata](../userguide/component_metadata_rules.html)
    * [Customizing Resolution](../userguide/resolution_rules.html)
    * [Preventing accidental upgrades](../userguide/resolution_strategy_tuning.html)
  * Producing and Consuming Variants of Libraries
    * [Declaring Capabilities of a Library](../userguide/component_capabilities.html)
    * [Modeling Feature Variants and Optional Dependencies](../userguide/feature_variants.html)
    * [Understanding Variant Selection](../userguide/variant_model.html)
    * [Declaring Variant Attributes](../userguide/variant_attributes.html)
    * [Sharing Outputs of Projects](../userguide/cross_project_publications.html)
    * [Transforming Artifacts](../userguide/artifact_transforms.html)
  * Working in a Multi-repo Environment
    * [Composing Builds](../userguide/composite_builds.html)
  * Publishing Libraries
    * [Setting up Publishing](../userguide/publishing_setup.html)
    * [Understanding Gradle Module Metadata](../userguide/publishing_gradle_module_metadata.html)
    * [Signing Artifacts](../userguide/publishing_signing.html)
    * [Customizing Publishing](../userguide/publishing_customization.html)
    * [Maven Publish Plugin](../userguide/publishing_maven.html)
    * [Ivy Publish Plugin](../userguide/publishing_ivy.html)
  * [Terminology](../userguide/dependency_management_terminology.html)

### Extending Gradle

  * [Plugin Development Tutorials](https://gradle.org/guides/?q=Plugin%20Development)
  * [Writing Gradle Task Types](../userguide/custom_tasks.html)
  * [Writing Gradle Plugins](../userguide/custom_plugins.html)
  * [Writing Custom Gradle Types](../userguide/custom_gradle_types.html)
  * [Configuring Tasks Lazily](../userguide/lazy_configuration.html)
  * [Using Task Configuration Avoidance](../userguide/task_configuration_avoidance.html)

### Reference

  * [Core Plugins](../userguide/plugin_reference.html)
  * [Command-Line Interface](../userguide/command_line_interface.html)
  * [Gradle & Third-party Tools](../userguide/third_party_integration.html)
  * [The Gradle Wrapper](../userguide/gradle_wrapper.html)
  * [Gradle-managed Directories](../userguide/directory_layout.html)

# Dependency Management Terminology

version 6.7.1

Contents

  * Artifact
  * Capability
  * Component
  * Configuration
  * Dependency
  * Dependency constraint
  * Feature Variant
  * Module
  * Module metadata
  * Component metadata rule
  * Module version
  * Platform
  * Publication
  * Repository
  * Resolution rule
  * Transitive dependency
  * Variant (of a component)
  * Variant Attribute

Dependency management comes with a wealth of terminology. Here you can find
the most commonly-used terms including references to the user guide to learn
about their practical application.

## Artifact

A file or directory produced by a build, such as a JAR, a ZIP distribution, or
a native executable.

Artifacts are typically designed to be used or consumed by users or other
projects, or deployed to hosting systems. In such cases, the artifact is a
single file. Directories are common in the case of inter-project dependencies
to avoid the cost of producing the publishable artifact.

## Capability

A capability identifies a feature offered by one or multiple components. A
capability is identified by coordinates similar to the coordinates used for
module versions. By default, each module version offers a capability that
matches its coordinates, for example `com.google:guava:18.0`. Capabilities can
be used to express that a component provides multiple feature variants or that
two different components implement the same feature (and thus cannot be used
together). For more details, see the section on
[capabilities](component_capabilities.html).

## Component

Any single version of a module.

For external libraries, the term component refers to one published version of
the library.

In a build, components are defined by plugins (e.g. the Java Library plugin)
and provide a simple way to define a publication for publishing. They comprise
artifacts as well as the appropriate metadata that describes a component's
variants in detail. For example, the `java` component in its default setup
consists of a JAR — produced by the `jar` task — and the dependency
information of the Java _api_ and _runtime_ variants. It may also define
additional variants, for example _sources_ and _Javadoc_ , with the
corresponding artifacts.

## Configuration

A configuration is a named set of dependencies grouped together for a specific
goal. Configurations provide access to the underlying, resolved modules and
their artifacts. For more information, see the sections on [dependency
configurations](declaring_dependencies.html#sec:what-are-dependency-
configurations) as well as [resolvable and consumable
configurations](declaring_dependencies.html#sec:resolvable-consumable-
configs).

__ |

The word "configuration" is an overloaded term and has a different meaning
outside of the context of dependency management.  
  
---|---  
  
## Dependency

A dependency is a pointer to another piece of software required to build, test
or run a module. For more information, see the section on [declaring
dependencies](declaring_dependencies.html).

## Dependency constraint

A dependency constraint defines requirements that need to be met by a module
to make it a valid resolution result for the dependency. For example, a
dependency constraint can narrow down the set of supported module versions.
Dependency constraints can be used to express such requirements for transitive
dependencies. For more information, see the sections on
[upgrading](dependency_constraints.html) and
[downgrading](dependency_downgrade_and_exclude.html) transitive dependencies.

## Feature Variant

A feature variant is a variant representing a feature of a component that can
be individually selected or not. A feature variant is identified by one or
more capabilities. For more information, see the sections on [modeling feature
variants and optional dependencies](feature_variants.html).

## Module

A piece of software that evolves over time e.g. [Google
Guava](https://github.com/google/guava). Every module has a name. Each release
of a module is optimally represented by a module version. For convenient
consumption, modules can be hosted in a repository.

## Module metadata

Releases of a module provide metadata. Metadata is the data that describes the
module in more detail e.g. information about the location of artifacts or
required transitive dependencies. Gradle offers its own metadata format called
[Gradle Module
Metadata](https://github.com/gradle/gradle/blob/master/subprojects/docs/src/docs/design/gradle-
module-metadata-latest-specification.md) (`.module` file) but also supports
Maven (`.pom`) and Ivy (`ivy.xml`) metadata. See the section on [understanding
Gradle Module Metadata](publishing_gradle_module_metadata.html) for more
information on the supported metadata formats.

## Component metadata rule

A component metadata rule is a rule that modifies a component's metadata after
it was fetched from a repository, e.g. to add missing information or to
correct wrong information. In contrast to resolution rules, component metadata
rules are applied **before** resolution starts. Component metadata rules are
defined as part of the build logic and can be shared through plugins. For more
information, see the section on [fixing metadata with component metadata
rules](component_metadata_rules.html).

## Module version

A module version represents a distinct set of changes of a released module.
For example `18.0` represents the version of the module with the coordinates
`com.google:guava:18.0`. In practice there's no limitation to the scheme of
the module version. Timestamps, numbers, special suffixes like `-GA` are all
allowed identifiers. The most widely-used versioning strategy is [semantic
versioning](https://semver.org/).

## Platform

A platform is a set of modules aimed to be used together. There are different
categories of platforms, corresponding to different use cases:

  * module set: often a set of modules published together as a whole. Using one module of the set often means we want to use the same version for all modules of the set. For example, if using `groovy` 1.2, also use `groovy-json` 1.2.

  * runtime environment: a set of libraries known to work well together. e.g., the Spring Platform, recommending versions for both Spring and components that work well with Spring.

  * deployment environment: Java runtime, application server, …​

In addition Gradle defines [virtual
platforms](dependency_version_alignment.html#sec:virtual_platform).

__ |

Maven's BOM (bill-of-material) is a popular kind of platform that [Gradle
supports](platforms.html#sub:bom_import).  
  
---|---  
  
## Publication

A description of the files and metadata that should be published to a
repository as a single entity for use by consumers.

A publication has a name and consists of one or more artifacts plus
information about those artifacts (the metadata).

## Repository

A repository hosts a set of modules, each of which may provide one or many
releases (components) indicated by a module version. The repository can be
based on a binary repository product (e.g. Artifactory or Nexus) or a
directory structure in the filesystem. For more information, see [Declaring
Repositories](declaring_repositories.html).

## Resolution rule

A resolution rule influences the behavior of how a dependency is resolved
directly. Resolution rules are defined as part of the build logic. For more
information, see the section on [customizing resolution of a dependency
directly](resolution_rules.html).

## Transitive dependency

A variant of a component can have dependencies on other modules to work
properly, so-called transitive dependencies. Releases of a module hosted on a
repository can provide metadata to declare those transitive dependencies. By
default, Gradle resolves transitive dependencies automatically. The version
selection for transitive dependencies can be influenced by declaring
[dependency constraints](dependency_constraints.html).

## Variant (of a component)

Each component consists of one or more variants. A variant consists of a set
of artifacts and defines a set of dependencies. It is identified by a set of
attributes and capabilities.

Gradle's dependency resolution is variant-aware and selects one or more
variants of each component after a component (i.e. one version of a module)
has been selected. It may also fail if the variant selection result is
ambiguous, meaning that Gradle does not have enough information to select one
of multiple mutual exclusive variants. In that case, more information can be
provided through variant attributes. Examples of variants each Java components
typically offers are _api_ and _runtime_ variants. Others examples are JDK8
and JDK11 variants. For more information, see the section on [variant
selection](variant_model.html).

## Variant Attribute

Attributes are used to identify and select variants. A variant has one or more
attributes defined, for example `org.gradle.usage=java-api`,
`org.gradle.jvm.version=11`. When dependencies are resolved, a set of
attributes are requested and Gradle finds the best fitting variant(s) for each
component in the dependency graph. Compatibility and disambiguation rules can
be implemented for an attribute to express compatibility between values (e.g.
Java 8 is compatible with Java 11, but Java 11 should be preferred if the
requested version is 11 or higher). Such rules are typically provided by
plugins. For more information, see the sections on [variant
selection](variant_model.html) and [declaring
attributes](variant_attributes.html).

**Docs**

  * [User Manual](/userguide/userguide.html)
  * [DSL Reference](/dsl/)
  * [Release Notes](/release-notes.html)
  * [Javadoc](/javadoc/)

**News**

  * [Blog](https://blog.gradle.org/)
  * [Newsletter](https://newsletter.gradle.com/)
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/gradle)
  * [Status Page](https://status.gradle.com/)

**Products**

  * [Build Scans](https://gradle.com/build-scans/)
  * [Build Cache](https://gradle.com/build-cache/)
  * [Enterprise Docs](https://gradle.com/enterprise/resources/)

**Get Help**

  * [Forums](https://discuss.gradle.org/c/help-discuss)
  * [GitHub](https://github.com/gradle/)
  * [Training](https://gradle.com/training/)
  * [Services](https://gradle.org/services/)

##### Stay `UP-TO-DATE` on new features and news

By entering your email, you agree to our
[Terms](https://gradle.com/legal/terms-of-service/) and [Privacy
Policy](https://gradle.com/legal/privacy/), including receipt of emails. You
can unsubscribe at any time.

Subscribe

© [Gradle Inc.](https://gradle.com) 2020 All rights reserved.

[ gradle ](/)

[Careers](https://gradle.com/careers/) |
[Privacy](https://gradle.com/legal/privacy/) | [Terms of
Service](https://gradle.com/legal/terms-of-service/) |
[Contact](https://gradle.org/contact/)

