

[ Gradle ](https://docs.gradle.org "Gradle Docs")

User Manual

  * Community Open Community Menu

[ Community Home ](https://gradle.org/)

[ Community Forums ](https://discuss.gradle.org/)

[ Community Plugins ](https://plugins.gradle.org)

  * [Training](https://gradle.com/training/)
  * News Open Community Menu

[ Newsletter ](https://newsletter.gradle.com)

[ Blog ](https://blog.gradle.org)

[ Twitter ](https://twitter.com/gradle)

  * [Enterprise](https://gradle.com)
  * [github](https://github.com/gradle/gradle "Gradle on GitHub")

  * [Docs Home](../userguide/userguide.html)
  * [Samples](../samples/index.html)
  * [Release Notes](../release-notes.html)
  * Gradle API
    * [Javadoc](../javadoc/index.html?overview-summary.html)
    * [Groovy DSL Reference](../dsl/index.html)
    * [Groovy DSL Primer](../userguide/groovy_build_script_primer.html)
    * [Kotlin DSL API](https://gradle.github.io/kotlin-dsl-docs/api/)
    * [Kotlin DSL Primer](../userguide/kotlin_dsl.html)

### User Manual

[ PDF ](../userguide/userguide.pdf)

  * [What is Gradle?](../userguide/what_is_gradle.html)
  * [Getting Started](../userguide/getting_started.html)
  * [Installing Gradle](../userguide/installation.html)
  * Upgrading Gradle...
    * [version 6.X to latest](../userguide/upgrading_version_6.html)
    * [version 5.X to 6.0](../userguide/upgrading_version_5.html)
    * [version 4.X to 5.0](../userguide/upgrading_version_4.html)
    * [Gradle's Feature Lifecycle](../userguide/feature_lifecycle.html)
  * Migrating to Gradle...
    * [from Maven](../userguide/migrating_from_maven.html)
    * [from Ant](../userguide/migrating_from_ant.html)
  * [Compatibility Notes](../userguide/compatibility.html)
  * [Troubleshooting Builds](../userguide/troubleshooting.html)

### Running Gradle Builds

  * Customizing Execution
    * [Configuring the Build Environment](../userguide/build_environment.html)
    * [Configuring the Gradle Daemon](../userguide/gradle_daemon.html)
    * [Using Initialization Scripts](../userguide/init_scripts.html)
  * [Executing Multi-Project Builds](../userguide/intro_multi_project_builds.html)
  * [Inspecting Gradle Builds](https://scans.gradle.com/)
  * Optimizing Build Times
    * [Build Performance Guide](https://guides.gradle.org/performance/)
    * [Enabling and Configuring the Build Cache](../userguide/build_cache.html)
    * [Using the Configuration Cache](../userguide/configuration_cache.html)

### Authoring Gradle Builds

  * Learning the Basics
    * [Introducing the Basics of Build Scripts](../userguide/tutorial_using_tasks.html)
    * [Working with Tasks](../userguide/more_about_tasks.html)
    * [Learning More About Build Scripts](../userguide/writing_build_scripts.html)
    * [Working with Files](../userguide/working_with_files.html)
    * [Using Gradle Plugins](../userguide/plugins.html)
    * [Understanding the Build Lifecycle](../userguide/build_lifecycle.html)
    * [Working with Logging](../userguide/logging.html)
    * [Avoiding Traps](../userguide/potential_traps.html)
  * Authoring Multi-Project Builds
    * [Creating a Basic Multi-Project Build](../userguide/multi_project_builds.html)
    * [Declaring Dependencies between Subprojects](../userguide/declaring_dependencies_between_subprojects.html)
    * [Sharing Build Logic between Subprojects](../userguide/sharing_build_logic_between_subprojects.html)
    * [Fine Tuning the Project Layout](../userguide/fine_tuning_project_layout.html)
    * [Understanding Configuration and Execution](../userguide/multi_project_configuration_and_execution.html)
  * Authoring Sustainable Builds
    * [Organizing Build Logic](../userguide/organizing_gradle_projects.html)
    * [Following Best Practices](../userguide/authoring_maintainable_build_scripts.html)
  * Advanced Techniques
    * [Developing Parallel Tasks](https://guides.gradle.org/using-the-worker-api/)
    * [Testing a Build with TestKit](../userguide/test_kit.html)
    * [Using Ant from Gradle](../userguide/ant.html)

### Authoring JVM Builds

  * [Building Java & JVM projects](../userguide/building_java_projects.html)
  * [Testing Java & JVM projects](../userguide/java_testing.html)
  * [Toolchains for Java projects](../userguide/toolchains.html)
  * [Managing Dependencies](../userguide/dependency_management_for_java_projects.html)
  * JVM Plugins
    * [Java Library Plugin](../userguide/java_library_plugin.html)
    * [Java Application Plugin](../userguide/application_plugin.html)
    * [Java Platform Plugin](../userguide/java_platform_plugin.html)
    * [Groovy Plugin](../userguide/groovy_plugin.html)
    * [Scala Plugin](../userguide/scala_plugin.html)

### Authoring C++/Swift Builds

  * [Building C++ projects](../userguide/building_cpp_projects.html)
  * [Testing C++ projects](../userguide/cpp_testing.html)
  * [Building Swift projects](../userguide/building_swift_projects.html)
  * [Testing Swift projects](../userguide/swift_testing.html)

### Working with Dependencies

  * Learning the Basics
    * [What is Dependency Management?](../userguide/core_dependency_management.html)
    * [Declaring Repositories](../userguide/declaring_repositories.html)
    * [Declaring Dependencies](../userguide/declaring_dependencies.html)
    * [Understanding Library and Application Differences](../userguide/library_vs_application.html)
    * [Viewing and Debugging Dependencies](../userguide/viewing_debugging_dependencies.html)
    * [Understanding Resolution](../userguide/dependency_resolution.html)
    * [Verifying dependencies](../userguide/dependency_verification.html)
  * Declaring Versions
    * [Declaring Versions and Ranges](../userguide/single_versions.html)
    * [Declaring Rich Versions](../userguide/rich_versions.html)
    * [Handling Changing Versions](../userguide/dynamic_versions.html)
    * [Locking Versions](../userguide/dependency_locking.html)
  * Controlling Transitives
    * [Upgrading Versions](../userguide/dependency_constraints.html)
    * [Downgrading and Excluding](../userguide/dependency_downgrade_and_exclude.html)
    * [Sharing Versions](../userguide/platforms.html)
    * [Aligning Dependencies](../userguide/dependency_version_alignment.html)
    * [Handling Mutually Exclusive Dependencies](../userguide/dependency_capability_conflict.html)
    * [Fixing Metadata](../userguide/component_metadata_rules.html)
    * [Customizing Resolution](../userguide/resolution_rules.html)
    * [Preventing accidental upgrades](../userguide/resolution_strategy_tuning.html)
  * Producing and Consuming Variants of Libraries
    * [Declaring Capabilities of a Library](../userguide/component_capabilities.html)
    * [Modeling Feature Variants and Optional Dependencies](../userguide/feature_variants.html)
    * [Understanding Variant Selection](../userguide/variant_model.html)
    * [Declaring Variant Attributes](../userguide/variant_attributes.html)
    * [Sharing Outputs of Projects](../userguide/cross_project_publications.html)
    * [Transforming Artifacts](../userguide/artifact_transforms.html)
  * Working in a Multi-repo Environment
    * [Composing Builds](../userguide/composite_builds.html)
  * Publishing Libraries
    * [Setting up Publishing](../userguide/publishing_setup.html)
    * [Understanding Gradle Module Metadata](../userguide/publishing_gradle_module_metadata.html)
    * [Signing Artifacts](../userguide/publishing_signing.html)
    * [Customizing Publishing](../userguide/publishing_customization.html)
    * [Maven Publish Plugin](../userguide/publishing_maven.html)
    * [Ivy Publish Plugin](../userguide/publishing_ivy.html)
  * [Terminology](../userguide/dependency_management_terminology.html)

### Extending Gradle

  * [Plugin Development Tutorials](https://gradle.org/guides/?q=Plugin%20Development)
  * [Writing Gradle Task Types](../userguide/custom_tasks.html)
  * [Writing Gradle Plugins](../userguide/custom_plugins.html)
  * [Writing Custom Gradle Types](../userguide/custom_gradle_types.html)
  * [Configuring Tasks Lazily](../userguide/lazy_configuration.html)
  * [Using Task Configuration Avoidance](../userguide/task_configuration_avoidance.html)

### Reference

  * [Core Plugins](../userguide/plugin_reference.html)
  * [Command-Line Interface](../userguide/command_line_interface.html)
  * [Gradle & Third-party Tools](../userguide/third_party_integration.html)
  * [The Gradle Wrapper](../userguide/gradle_wrapper.html)
  * [Gradle-managed Directories](../userguide/directory_layout.html)

# Getting Started

version 6.7.1

Contents

  * Before you start
  * Installation
  * Try Gradle
  * Command line vs IDEs
  * Executing Gradle builds
  * Authoring Gradle builds
  * Integrating 3rd-party tools with Gradle

Everyone has to start somewhere and if you're new to Gradle, this is where to
begin.

## Before you start

In order to use Gradle effectively, you need to know what it is and understand
some of its fundamental concepts. So before you start using Gradle in earnest,
we highly recommend you read [What is
Gradle?](what_is_gradle.html#what_is_gradle).

Even if you're experienced with using Gradle, we suggest you read the section
[5 things you need to know about Gradle](what_is_gradle.html#five_things) as
it clears up some common misconceptions.

## Installation

If all you want to do is run an existing Gradle build, then you don't need to
install Gradle if the build has a [Gradle
Wrapper](gradle_wrapper.html#gradle_wrapper), identifiable via the _gradlew_
and/or _gradlew.bat_ files in the root of the build. You just need to make
sure your system [satisfies Gradle's
prerequisites](installation.html#sec:prerequisites).

Android Studio comes with a working installation of Gradle, so you don't need
to install Gradle separately in that case.

In order to create a new build or add a Wrapper to an existing build, you will
need to install Gradle [according to these
instructions](installation.html#installation). Note that there may be other
ways to install Gradle in addition to those described on that page, since it's
nearly impossible to keep track of all the package managers out there.

## Try Gradle

Actively using Gradle is a great way to learn about it, so once you've
installed Gradle, try one of the introductory hands-on tutorials:

  * [Building Android apps](../samples/sample_building_android_apps.html)

  * [Building Java applications](../samples/sample_building_java_applications.html)

  * [Building Java libraries](../samples/sample_building_java_libraries.html)

  * [Building Groovy applications](../samples/sample_building_groovy_applications.html)

  * [Building Groovy libraries](../samples/sample_building_groovy_libraries.html)

  * [Building Scala applications](../samples/sample_building_scala_applications.html)

  * [Building Scala libraries](../samples/sample_building_scala_libraries.html)

  * [Building Kotlin JVM applications](../samples/sample_building_kotlin_applications.html)

  * [Building Kotlin JVM libraries](../samples/sample_building_kotlin_libraries.html)

  * [Building C++ applications](../samples/sample_building_cpp_applications.html)

  * [Building C++ libraries](../samples/sample_building_cpp_libraries.html)

  * [Building Swift applications](../samples/sample_building_swift_applications.html)

  * [Building Swift libraries](../samples/sample_building_swift_libraries.html)

  * [Creating build scans](https://scans.gradle.com/)

There are more samples available on the [samples
pages](../samples/index.html).

## Command line vs IDEs

Some folks are hard-core command-line users, while others prefer to never
leave the comfort of their IDE. Many people happily use both and Gradle
endeavors not to discriminate. Gradle is supported by [several major
IDEs](third_party_integration.html#ides) and everything that can be done from
the [command line](command_line_interface.html#command_line_interface) is
available to IDEs via the [Tooling
API](third_party_integration.html#embedding).

Android Studio and IntelliJ IDEA users should consider using [Kotlin DSL build
scripts](kotlin_dsl.html#kotlin_dsl) for the superior IDE support when editing
them.

## Executing Gradle builds

If you follow any of the tutorials linked above, you will execute a Gradle
build. But what do you do if you're given a Gradle build without any
instructions?

Here are some useful steps to follow:

  1. Determine whether the project has a Gradle wrapper and [use it if it's there](gradle_wrapper.html#sec:using_wrapper) — the main IDEs default to using the wrapper when it's available.

  2. Discover the project structure.

Either import the build with an IDE or run `gradle projects` from the command
line. If only the root project is listed, it's a single-project build.
Otherwise it's a [multi-project
build](intro_multi_project_builds.html#intro_multi_project_builds).

  3. Find out what tasks you can run.

If you have imported the build into an IDE, you should have access to a view
that displays all the available tasks. From the command line, run `gradle
tasks`.

  4. Learn more about the tasks via `gradle help --task <taskname>`.

The `help` task can display extra information about a task, including which
projects contain that task and what options the task supports.

  5. Run the task that you are interested in.

Many convention-based builds integrate with Gradle's [lifecycle
tasks](base_plugin.html#sec:base_tasks), so use those when you don't have
something more specific you want to do with the build. For example, most
builds have `clean`, `check`, `assemble` and `build` tasks.

From the command line, just run `gradle <taskname>` to execute a particular
task. You can learn more about command-line execution in the [corresponding
user manual chapter](command_line_interface.html#command_line_interface). If
you're using an IDE, check its documentation to find out how to run a task.

Gradle builds often follow standard conventions on project structure and
tasks, so if you're familiar with other builds of the same type — such as
Java, Android or native builds — then the file and directory structure of the
build should be familiar, as well as many of the tasks and project properties.

For more specialized builds or those with significant customizations, you
should ideally have access to documentation on how to run the build and what
[build properties](build_environment.html#build_environment) you can
configure.

## Authoring Gradle builds

Learning to create and maintain Gradle builds is a process, and one that takes
a little time. We recommend that you start with the appropriate core plugins
and their conventions for your project, and then gradually incorporate
customizations as you learn more about the tool.

Here are some useful first steps on your journey to mastering Gradle:

  1. Try one or two basic tutorials to see what a Gradle build looks like, particularly the ones that match the type of project you work with (Java, native, Android, etc.).

  2. Make sure you've read [5 things you need to know about Gradle](what_is_gradle.html#five_things)!

  3. Learn about the fundamental elements of a Gradle build: [projects](tutorial_using_tasks.html#sec:projects_and_tasks), [tasks](more_about_tasks.html#more_about_tasks), and the [file API](working_with_files.html#working_with_files).

  4. If you are building software for the JVM, be sure to read about the specifics of those types of projects in [Building Java & JVM projects](building_java_projects.html#building_java_projects) and [Testing in Java & JVM projects](java_testing.html#java_testing).

  5. Familiarize yourself with the [core plugins](plugin_reference.html#plugin_reference) that come packaged with Gradle, as they provide a lot of useful functionality out of the box.

  6. Learn how to [author maintainable build scripts](authoring_maintainable_build_scripts.html#authoring_maintainable_build_scripts) and [best organize your Gradle projects](organizing_gradle_projects.html#organizing_gradle_projects).

The user manual contains a lot of other useful information and you can find
samples demonstrating various Gradle features on the [samples
pages](../samples/index.html).

## Integrating 3rd-party tools with Gradle

Gradle's flexibility means that it readily works with other tools, such as
those listed on our [Gradle & Third-party
Tools](third_party_integration.html#third_party_integration) page.

There are two main modes of integration:

  * A tool drives Gradle — uses it to extract information about a build and run it — via the [Tooling API](third_party_integration.html#embedding)

  * Gradle invokes or generates information for a tool via the 3rd-party tool's APIs — this is usually done via plugins and custom task types

Tools that have existing Java-based APIs are generally straightforward to
integrate. You can find many such integrations on Gradle's [plugin
portal](https://plugins.gradle.org/).

**Docs**

  * [User Manual](/userguide/userguide.html)
  * [DSL Reference](/dsl/)
  * [Release Notes](/release-notes.html)
  * [Javadoc](/javadoc/)

**News**

  * [Blog](https://blog.gradle.org/)
  * [Newsletter](https://newsletter.gradle.com/)
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/gradle)
  * [Status Page](https://status.gradle.com/)

**Products**

  * [Build Scans](https://gradle.com/build-scans/)
  * [Build Cache](https://gradle.com/build-cache/)
  * [Enterprise Docs](https://gradle.com/enterprise/resources/)

**Get Help**

  * [Forums](https://discuss.gradle.org/c/help-discuss)
  * [GitHub](https://github.com/gradle/)
  * [Training](https://gradle.com/training/)
  * [Services](https://gradle.org/services/)

##### Stay `UP-TO-DATE` on new features and news

By entering your email, you agree to our
[Terms](https://gradle.com/legal/terms-of-service/) and [Privacy
Policy](https://gradle.com/legal/privacy/), including receipt of emails. You
can unsubscribe at any time.

Subscribe

© [Gradle Inc.](https://gradle.com) 2020 All rights reserved.

[ gradle ](/)

[Careers](https://gradle.com/careers/) |
[Privacy](https://gradle.com/legal/privacy/) | [Terms of
Service](https://gradle.com/legal/terms-of-service/) |
[Contact](https://gradle.org/contact/)

