

[ Gradle ](https://docs.gradle.org "Gradle Docs")

User Manual

  * Community Open Community Menu

[ Community Home ](https://gradle.org/)

[ Community Forums ](https://discuss.gradle.org/)

[ Community Plugins ](https://plugins.gradle.org)

  * [Training](https://gradle.com/training/)
  * News Open Community Menu

[ Newsletter ](https://newsletter.gradle.com)

[ Blog ](https://blog.gradle.org)

[ Twitter ](https://twitter.com/gradle)

  * [Enterprise](https://gradle.com)
  * [github](https://github.com/gradle/gradle "Gradle on GitHub")

  * [Docs Home](../userguide/userguide.html)
  * [Samples](../samples/index.html)
  * [Release Notes](../release-notes.html)
  * Gradle API
    * [Javadoc](../javadoc/index.html?overview-summary.html)
    * [Groovy DSL Reference](../dsl/index.html)
    * [Groovy DSL Primer](../userguide/groovy_build_script_primer.html)
    * [Kotlin DSL API](https://gradle.github.io/kotlin-dsl-docs/api/)
    * [Kotlin DSL Primer](../userguide/kotlin_dsl.html)

### User Manual

[ PDF ](../userguide/userguide.pdf)

  * [What is Gradle?](../userguide/what_is_gradle.html)
  * [Getting Started](../userguide/getting_started.html)
  * [Installing Gradle](../userguide/installation.html)
  * Upgrading Gradle...
    * [version 6.X to latest](../userguide/upgrading_version_6.html)
    * [version 5.X to 6.0](../userguide/upgrading_version_5.html)
    * [version 4.X to 5.0](../userguide/upgrading_version_4.html)
    * [Gradle's Feature Lifecycle](../userguide/feature_lifecycle.html)
  * Migrating to Gradle...
    * [from Maven](../userguide/migrating_from_maven.html)
    * [from Ant](../userguide/migrating_from_ant.html)
  * [Compatibility Notes](../userguide/compatibility.html)
  * [Troubleshooting Builds](../userguide/troubleshooting.html)

### Running Gradle Builds

  * Customizing Execution
    * [Configuring the Build Environment](../userguide/build_environment.html)
    * [Configuring the Gradle Daemon](../userguide/gradle_daemon.html)
    * [Using Initialization Scripts](../userguide/init_scripts.html)
  * [Executing Multi-Project Builds](../userguide/intro_multi_project_builds.html)
  * [Inspecting Gradle Builds](https://scans.gradle.com/)
  * Optimizing Build Times
    * [Build Performance Guide](https://guides.gradle.org/performance/)
    * [Enabling and Configuring the Build Cache](../userguide/build_cache.html)
    * [Using the Configuration Cache](../userguide/configuration_cache.html)

### Authoring Gradle Builds

  * Learning the Basics
    * [Introducing the Basics of Build Scripts](../userguide/tutorial_using_tasks.html)
    * [Working with Tasks](../userguide/more_about_tasks.html)
    * [Learning More About Build Scripts](../userguide/writing_build_scripts.html)
    * [Working with Files](../userguide/working_with_files.html)
    * [Using Gradle Plugins](../userguide/plugins.html)
    * [Understanding the Build Lifecycle](../userguide/build_lifecycle.html)
    * [Working with Logging](../userguide/logging.html)
    * [Avoiding Traps](../userguide/potential_traps.html)
  * Authoring Multi-Project Builds
    * [Creating a Basic Multi-Project Build](../userguide/multi_project_builds.html)
    * [Declaring Dependencies between Subprojects](../userguide/declaring_dependencies_between_subprojects.html)
    * [Sharing Build Logic between Subprojects](../userguide/sharing_build_logic_between_subprojects.html)
    * [Fine Tuning the Project Layout](../userguide/fine_tuning_project_layout.html)
    * [Understanding Configuration and Execution](../userguide/multi_project_configuration_and_execution.html)
  * Authoring Sustainable Builds
    * [Organizing Build Logic](../userguide/organizing_gradle_projects.html)
    * [Following Best Practices](../userguide/authoring_maintainable_build_scripts.html)
  * Advanced Techniques
    * [Developing Parallel Tasks](https://guides.gradle.org/using-the-worker-api/)
    * [Testing a Build with TestKit](../userguide/test_kit.html)
    * [Using Ant from Gradle](../userguide/ant.html)

### Authoring JVM Builds

  * [Building Java & JVM projects](../userguide/building_java_projects.html)
  * [Testing Java & JVM projects](../userguide/java_testing.html)
  * [Toolchains for Java projects](../userguide/toolchains.html)
  * [Managing Dependencies](../userguide/dependency_management_for_java_projects.html)
  * JVM Plugins
    * [Java Library Plugin](../userguide/java_library_plugin.html)
    * [Java Application Plugin](../userguide/application_plugin.html)
    * [Java Platform Plugin](../userguide/java_platform_plugin.html)
    * [Groovy Plugin](../userguide/groovy_plugin.html)
    * [Scala Plugin](../userguide/scala_plugin.html)

### Authoring C++/Swift Builds

  * [Building C++ projects](../userguide/building_cpp_projects.html)
  * [Testing C++ projects](../userguide/cpp_testing.html)
  * [Building Swift projects](../userguide/building_swift_projects.html)
  * [Testing Swift projects](../userguide/swift_testing.html)

### Working with Dependencies

  * Learning the Basics
    * [What is Dependency Management?](../userguide/core_dependency_management.html)
    * [Declaring Repositories](../userguide/declaring_repositories.html)
    * [Declaring Dependencies](../userguide/declaring_dependencies.html)
    * [Understanding Library and Application Differences](../userguide/library_vs_application.html)
    * [Viewing and Debugging Dependencies](../userguide/viewing_debugging_dependencies.html)
    * [Understanding Resolution](../userguide/dependency_resolution.html)
    * [Verifying dependencies](../userguide/dependency_verification.html)
  * Declaring Versions
    * [Declaring Versions and Ranges](../userguide/single_versions.html)
    * [Declaring Rich Versions](../userguide/rich_versions.html)
    * [Handling Changing Versions](../userguide/dynamic_versions.html)
    * [Locking Versions](../userguide/dependency_locking.html)
  * Controlling Transitives
    * [Upgrading Versions](../userguide/dependency_constraints.html)
    * [Downgrading and Excluding](../userguide/dependency_downgrade_and_exclude.html)
    * [Sharing Versions](../userguide/platforms.html)
    * [Aligning Dependencies](../userguide/dependency_version_alignment.html)
    * [Handling Mutually Exclusive Dependencies](../userguide/dependency_capability_conflict.html)
    * [Fixing Metadata](../userguide/component_metadata_rules.html)
    * [Customizing Resolution](../userguide/resolution_rules.html)
    * [Preventing accidental upgrades](../userguide/resolution_strategy_tuning.html)
  * Producing and Consuming Variants of Libraries
    * [Declaring Capabilities of a Library](../userguide/component_capabilities.html)
    * [Modeling Feature Variants and Optional Dependencies](../userguide/feature_variants.html)
    * [Understanding Variant Selection](../userguide/variant_model.html)
    * [Declaring Variant Attributes](../userguide/variant_attributes.html)
    * [Sharing Outputs of Projects](../userguide/cross_project_publications.html)
    * [Transforming Artifacts](../userguide/artifact_transforms.html)
  * Working in a Multi-repo Environment
    * [Composing Builds](../userguide/composite_builds.html)
  * Publishing Libraries
    * [Setting up Publishing](../userguide/publishing_setup.html)
    * [Understanding Gradle Module Metadata](../userguide/publishing_gradle_module_metadata.html)
    * [Signing Artifacts](../userguide/publishing_signing.html)
    * [Customizing Publishing](../userguide/publishing_customization.html)
    * [Maven Publish Plugin](../userguide/publishing_maven.html)
    * [Ivy Publish Plugin](../userguide/publishing_ivy.html)
  * [Terminology](../userguide/dependency_management_terminology.html)

### Extending Gradle

  * [Plugin Development Tutorials](https://gradle.org/guides/?q=Plugin%20Development)
  * [Writing Gradle Task Types](../userguide/custom_tasks.html)
  * [Writing Gradle Plugins](../userguide/custom_plugins.html)
  * [Writing Custom Gradle Types](../userguide/custom_gradle_types.html)
  * [Configuring Tasks Lazily](../userguide/lazy_configuration.html)
  * [Using Task Configuration Avoidance](../userguide/task_configuration_avoidance.html)

### Reference

  * [Core Plugins](../userguide/plugin_reference.html)
  * [Command-Line Interface](../userguide/command_line_interface.html)
  * [Gradle & Third-party Tools](../userguide/third_party_integration.html)
  * [The Gradle Wrapper](../userguide/gradle_wrapper.html)
  * [Gradle-managed Directories](../userguide/directory_layout.html)

# The Feature Lifecycle

version 6.7.1

Contents

  * States
  * Backwards Compatibility Policy
  * Release end-of-life Policy

Gradle is under constant development and improvement. New versions are
delivered on a regular and frequent basis (approximately every 6 weeks) as
described in the section on end-of-life support. Continuous improvement
combined with frequent delivery allows new features to be made available to
users early and for invaluable real world feedback to be incorporated into the
development process. Getting new functionality into the hands of users
regularly is a core value of the Gradle platform. At the same time, API and
feature stability is taken very seriously and is also considered a core value
of the Gradle platform. This is something that is engineered into the
development process by design choices and automated testing, and is formalised
by the section on backwards compatibility.

The Gradle _feature lifecycle_ has been designed to meet these goals. It also
serves to clearly communicate to users of Gradle what the state of a feature
is. The term _feature_ typically means an API or DSL method or property in
this context, but it is not restricted to this definition. Command line
arguments and modes of execution (e.g. the Build Daemon) are two examples of
other kinds of features.

## States

Features can be in one of 4 states:

  * Internal

  * Incubating

  * Public

  * Deprecated

### Internal

Internal features are not designed for public use and are only intended to be
used by Gradle itself. They can change in any way at any point in time without
any notice. Therefore, we recommend avoiding the use of such features.
Internal features are not documented. If it appears in this User Manual, the
DSL Reference or the API Reference documentation then the feature is not
internal.

Internal features may evolve into public features.

### Incubating

Features are introduced in the _incubating_ state to allow real world feedback
to be incorporated into the feature before it is made public and locked down
to provide backwards compatibility. It also gives users who are willing to
accept potential future changes early access to the feature so they can put it
into use immediately.

A feature in an incubating state may change in future Gradle versions until it
is no longer incubating. Changes to incubating features for a Gradle release
will be highlighted in the release notes for that release. The incubation
period for new features varies depending on the scope, complexity and nature
of the feature.

Features in incubation are clearly indicated to be so. In the source code, all
methods/properties/classes that are incubating are annotated with
[Incubating](../javadoc/org/gradle/api/Incubating.html), which is also used to
specially mark them in the DSL and API references. If an incubating feature is
discussed in this User Manual, it will be explicitly said to be in the
incubating state.

#### Feature Preview API

The feature preview API allows certain incubating features to be activated by
adding `enableFeaturePreview('FEATURE')` in your _settings_ file. Individual
preview features will be announced in release notes.

When _incubating_ features are either promoted to _public_ or removed, the
feature preview flags for them become obsolete, have no effect and should be
removed from the settings file.

### Public

The default state for a non-internal feature is _public_. Anything that is
documented in the User Manual, DSL Reference or API references that is not
explicitly said to be incubating or deprecated is considered public. Features
are said to be _promoted_ from an incubating state to public. The release
notes for each release indicate which previously incubating features are being
promoted by the release.

A public feature will _never_ be removed or intentionally changed without
undergoing deprecation. All public features are subject to the backwards
compatibility policy.

### Deprecated

Some features will become superseded or irrelevant due to the natural
evolution of Gradle. Such features will eventually be removed from Gradle
after being _deprecated_. A deprecated feature will _never_ be changed, until
it is finally removed according to the backwards compatibility policy.

Deprecated features are clearly indicated to be so. In the source code, all
methods/properties/classes that are deprecated are annotated with
“`@java.lang.Deprecated`” which is reflected in the DSL and API references. In
most cases, there is a replacement for the deprecated element, and this will
be described in the documentation. Using a deprecated feature will also result
in a runtime warning in Gradle's output.

Use of deprecated features should be avoided. The release notes for each
release indicate any features that are being deprecated by the release.

## Backwards Compatibility Policy

Gradle provides backwards compatibility across major versions (e.g. `1.x`,
`2.x`, etc.). Once a public feature is introduced or promoted in a Gradle
release it will remain indefinitely or until it is deprecated. Once
deprecated, it may be removed in the next major release. Deprecated features
may be supported across major releases, but this is not guaranteed.

## Release end-of-life Policy

Every day, a new nightly build of Gradle is created. This contains all of the
changes that have made it through Gradle's extensive continuous integration
tests during that day. Not every nightly may contain new changes and not every
nightly may be stable.

For each minor or major release, the Gradle team creates a pre-release
distribution called a release candidate (RC). When no problems are found after
a short period of time (usually a week), the release candidate is promoted to
a final/general availability (GA) release. If a regression is found in the
release candidate, a new RC distribution is created and the process repeats.
Release candidates are supported for as long as the release window is open,
but they are not intended to be used long term for production use. Bug reports
are greatly appreciated during the RC phase.

After a final release, the Gradle team may create additional patch releases
that are intended to replace the previous final release due to an important
bugfix or regression. For instance, Gradle 5.2.1 replaces the Gradle 5.2
release. Once a release candidate has been made, all feature development moves
on to the next release. As such, each Gradle release causes the previous
release to become end-of-line (EOL) and that release will not receive any new
bugfixes or feature backports.

**Docs**

  * [User Manual](/userguide/userguide.html)
  * [DSL Reference](/dsl/)
  * [Release Notes](/release-notes.html)
  * [Javadoc](/javadoc/)

**News**

  * [Blog](https://blog.gradle.org/)
  * [Newsletter](https://newsletter.gradle.com/)
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/gradle)
  * [Status Page](https://status.gradle.com/)

**Products**

  * [Build Scans](https://gradle.com/build-scans/)
  * [Build Cache](https://gradle.com/build-cache/)
  * [Enterprise Docs](https://gradle.com/enterprise/resources/)

**Get Help**

  * [Forums](https://discuss.gradle.org/c/help-discuss)
  * [GitHub](https://github.com/gradle/)
  * [Training](https://gradle.com/training/)
  * [Services](https://gradle.org/services/)

##### Stay `UP-TO-DATE` on new features and news

By entering your email, you agree to our
[Terms](https://gradle.com/legal/terms-of-service/) and [Privacy
Policy](https://gradle.com/legal/privacy/), including receipt of emails. You
can unsubscribe at any time.

Subscribe

© [Gradle Inc.](https://gradle.com) 2020 All rights reserved.

[ gradle ](/)

[Careers](https://gradle.com/careers/) |
[Privacy](https://gradle.com/legal/privacy/) | [Terms of
Service](https://gradle.com/legal/terms-of-service/) |
[Contact](https://gradle.org/contact/)

