

[ Gradle ](https://docs.gradle.org "Gradle Docs")

User Manual

  * Community Open Community Menu

[ Community Home ](https://gradle.org/)

[ Community Forums ](https://discuss.gradle.org/)

[ Community Plugins ](https://plugins.gradle.org)

  * [Training](https://gradle.com/training/)
  * News Open Community Menu

[ Newsletter ](https://newsletter.gradle.com)

[ Blog ](https://blog.gradle.org)

[ Twitter ](https://twitter.com/gradle)

  * [Enterprise](https://gradle.com)
  * [github](https://github.com/gradle/gradle "Gradle on GitHub")

  * [Docs Home](../userguide/userguide.html)
  * [Samples](../samples/index.html)
  * [Release Notes](../release-notes.html)
  * Gradle API
    * [Javadoc](../javadoc/index.html?overview-summary.html)
    * [Groovy DSL Reference](../dsl/index.html)
    * [Groovy DSL Primer](../userguide/groovy_build_script_primer.html)
    * [Kotlin DSL API](https://gradle.github.io/kotlin-dsl-docs/api/)
    * [Kotlin DSL Primer](../userguide/kotlin_dsl.html)

### User Manual

[ PDF ](../userguide/userguide.pdf)

  * [What is Gradle?](../userguide/what_is_gradle.html)
  * [Getting Started](../userguide/getting_started.html)
  * [Installing Gradle](../userguide/installation.html)
  * Upgrading Gradle...
    * [version 6.X to latest](../userguide/upgrading_version_6.html)
    * [version 5.X to 6.0](../userguide/upgrading_version_5.html)
    * [version 4.X to 5.0](../userguide/upgrading_version_4.html)
    * [Gradle's Feature Lifecycle](../userguide/feature_lifecycle.html)
  * Migrating to Gradle...
    * [from Maven](../userguide/migrating_from_maven.html)
    * [from Ant](../userguide/migrating_from_ant.html)
  * [Compatibility Notes](../userguide/compatibility.html)
  * [Troubleshooting Builds](../userguide/troubleshooting.html)

### Running Gradle Builds

  * Customizing Execution
    * [Configuring the Build Environment](../userguide/build_environment.html)
    * [Configuring the Gradle Daemon](../userguide/gradle_daemon.html)
    * [Using Initialization Scripts](../userguide/init_scripts.html)
  * [Executing Multi-Project Builds](../userguide/intro_multi_project_builds.html)
  * [Inspecting Gradle Builds](https://scans.gradle.com/)
  * Optimizing Build Times
    * [Build Performance Guide](https://guides.gradle.org/performance/)
    * [Enabling and Configuring the Build Cache](../userguide/build_cache.html)
    * [Using the Configuration Cache](../userguide/configuration_cache.html)

### Authoring Gradle Builds

  * Learning the Basics
    * [Introducing the Basics of Build Scripts](../userguide/tutorial_using_tasks.html)
    * [Working with Tasks](../userguide/more_about_tasks.html)
    * [Learning More About Build Scripts](../userguide/writing_build_scripts.html)
    * [Working with Files](../userguide/working_with_files.html)
    * [Using Gradle Plugins](../userguide/plugins.html)
    * [Understanding the Build Lifecycle](../userguide/build_lifecycle.html)
    * [Working with Logging](../userguide/logging.html)
    * [Avoiding Traps](../userguide/potential_traps.html)
  * Authoring Multi-Project Builds
    * [Creating a Basic Multi-Project Build](../userguide/multi_project_builds.html)
    * [Declaring Dependencies between Subprojects](../userguide/declaring_dependencies_between_subprojects.html)
    * [Sharing Build Logic between Subprojects](../userguide/sharing_build_logic_between_subprojects.html)
    * [Fine Tuning the Project Layout](../userguide/fine_tuning_project_layout.html)
    * [Understanding Configuration and Execution](../userguide/multi_project_configuration_and_execution.html)
  * Authoring Sustainable Builds
    * [Organizing Build Logic](../userguide/organizing_gradle_projects.html)
    * [Following Best Practices](../userguide/authoring_maintainable_build_scripts.html)
  * Advanced Techniques
    * [Developing Parallel Tasks](https://guides.gradle.org/using-the-worker-api/)
    * [Testing a Build with TestKit](../userguide/test_kit.html)
    * [Using Ant from Gradle](../userguide/ant.html)

### Authoring JVM Builds

  * [Building Java & JVM projects](../userguide/building_java_projects.html)
  * [Testing Java & JVM projects](../userguide/java_testing.html)
  * [Toolchains for Java projects](../userguide/toolchains.html)
  * [Managing Dependencies](../userguide/dependency_management_for_java_projects.html)
  * JVM Plugins
    * [Java Library Plugin](../userguide/java_library_plugin.html)
    * [Java Application Plugin](../userguide/application_plugin.html)
    * [Java Platform Plugin](../userguide/java_platform_plugin.html)
    * [Groovy Plugin](../userguide/groovy_plugin.html)
    * [Scala Plugin](../userguide/scala_plugin.html)

### Authoring C++/Swift Builds

  * [Building C++ projects](../userguide/building_cpp_projects.html)
  * [Testing C++ projects](../userguide/cpp_testing.html)
  * [Building Swift projects](../userguide/building_swift_projects.html)
  * [Testing Swift projects](../userguide/swift_testing.html)

### Working with Dependencies

  * Learning the Basics
    * [What is Dependency Management?](../userguide/core_dependency_management.html)
    * [Declaring Repositories](../userguide/declaring_repositories.html)
    * [Declaring Dependencies](../userguide/declaring_dependencies.html)
    * [Understanding Library and Application Differences](../userguide/library_vs_application.html)
    * [Viewing and Debugging Dependencies](../userguide/viewing_debugging_dependencies.html)
    * [Understanding Resolution](../userguide/dependency_resolution.html)
    * [Verifying dependencies](../userguide/dependency_verification.html)
  * Declaring Versions
    * [Declaring Versions and Ranges](../userguide/single_versions.html)
    * [Declaring Rich Versions](../userguide/rich_versions.html)
    * [Handling Changing Versions](../userguide/dynamic_versions.html)
    * [Locking Versions](../userguide/dependency_locking.html)
  * Controlling Transitives
    * [Upgrading Versions](../userguide/dependency_constraints.html)
    * [Downgrading and Excluding](../userguide/dependency_downgrade_and_exclude.html)
    * [Sharing Versions](../userguide/platforms.html)
    * [Aligning Dependencies](../userguide/dependency_version_alignment.html)
    * [Handling Mutually Exclusive Dependencies](../userguide/dependency_capability_conflict.html)
    * [Fixing Metadata](../userguide/component_metadata_rules.html)
    * [Customizing Resolution](../userguide/resolution_rules.html)
    * [Preventing accidental upgrades](../userguide/resolution_strategy_tuning.html)
  * Producing and Consuming Variants of Libraries
    * [Declaring Capabilities of a Library](../userguide/component_capabilities.html)
    * [Modeling Feature Variants and Optional Dependencies](../userguide/feature_variants.html)
    * [Understanding Variant Selection](../userguide/variant_model.html)
    * [Declaring Variant Attributes](../userguide/variant_attributes.html)
    * [Sharing Outputs of Projects](../userguide/cross_project_publications.html)
    * [Transforming Artifacts](../userguide/artifact_transforms.html)
  * Working in a Multi-repo Environment
    * [Composing Builds](../userguide/composite_builds.html)
  * Publishing Libraries
    * [Setting up Publishing](../userguide/publishing_setup.html)
    * [Understanding Gradle Module Metadata](../userguide/publishing_gradle_module_metadata.html)
    * [Signing Artifacts](../userguide/publishing_signing.html)
    * [Customizing Publishing](../userguide/publishing_customization.html)
    * [Maven Publish Plugin](../userguide/publishing_maven.html)
    * [Ivy Publish Plugin](../userguide/publishing_ivy.html)
  * [Terminology](../userguide/dependency_management_terminology.html)

### Extending Gradle

  * [Plugin Development Tutorials](https://gradle.org/guides/?q=Plugin%20Development)
  * [Writing Gradle Task Types](../userguide/custom_tasks.html)
  * [Writing Gradle Plugins](../userguide/custom_plugins.html)
  * [Writing Custom Gradle Types](../userguide/custom_gradle_types.html)
  * [Configuring Tasks Lazily](../userguide/lazy_configuration.html)
  * [Using Task Configuration Avoidance](../userguide/task_configuration_avoidance.html)

### Reference

  * [Core Plugins](../userguide/plugin_reference.html)
  * [Command-Line Interface](../userguide/command_line_interface.html)
  * [Gradle & Third-party Tools](../userguide/third_party_integration.html)
  * [The Gradle Wrapper](../userguide/gradle_wrapper.html)
  * [Gradle-managed Directories](../userguide/directory_layout.html)

# Command-Line Interface

version 6.7.1

Contents

  * Executing tasks
  * Common tasks
  * Project reporting
  * Command-line completion
  * Debugging options
  * Performance options
  * Logging options
  * Execution options
  * Environment options
  * Bootstrapping new projects
  * Continuous Build

The command-line interface is one of the primary methods of interacting with
Gradle. The following serves as a reference of executing and customizing
Gradle use of a command-line or when writing scripts or configuring continuous
integration.

Use of the [Gradle Wrapper](gradle_wrapper.html#gradle_wrapper) is highly
encouraged. You should substitute `./gradlew` or `gradlew.bat` for `gradle` in
all following examples when using the Wrapper.

Executing Gradle on the command-line conforms to the following structure.
Options are allowed before and after task names.

    
    
    gradle [taskName...] [--option-name...]

If multiple tasks are specified, they should be separated with a space.

Options that accept values can be specified with or without `=` between the
option and argument; however, use of `=` is recommended.

    
    
    --console=plain

Options that enable behavior have long-form options with inverses specified
with `--no-`. The following are opposites.

    
    
    --build-cache
    --no-build-cache

Many long-form options, have short option equivalents. The following are
equivalent:

    
    
    --help
    -h

__ |

Many command-line flags can be specified in `gradle.properties` to avoid
needing to be typed. See the [configuring build environment
guide](build_environment.html#sec:gradle_configuration_properties) for
details.  
  
---|---  
  
The following sections describe use of the Gradle command-line interface,
grouped roughly by user goal. Some plugins also add their own command line
options, for example [`--tests` for Java test
filtering](java_testing.html#test_filtering). For more information on exposing
command line options for your own tasks, see [Declaring and using command-line
options](custom_tasks.html#sec:declaring_and_using_command_line_options).

## Executing tasks

You can run a task and all of its
[dependencies](tutorial_using_tasks.html#sec:task_dependencies).

    
    
    $ gradle myTask

You can learn about what projects and tasks are available in the project
reporting section.

Most builds support a common set of tasks known as [_lifecycle
tasks_](more_about_tasks.html#sec:lifecycle_tasks). These include the `build`,
`assemble`, and `check` tasks.

### Executing tasks in multi-project builds

In a [multi-project
build](intro_multi_project_builds.html#intro_multi_project_builds), subproject
tasks can be executed with ":" separating subproject name and task name. The
following are equivalent _when run from the root project_.

    
    
    $ gradle :my-subproject:taskName
    $ gradle my-subproject:taskName

You can also run a task for all subprojects using the task name only. For
example, this will run the "test" task for all subprojects when invoked from
the root project directory.

    
    
    $ gradle test

When invoking Gradle from within a subproject, the project name should be
omitted:

    
    
    $ cd my-subproject
    $ gradle taskName

__ |

When executing the Gradle Wrapper from subprojects, one must reference
`gradlew` relatively. For example: `../gradlew taskName`. The community [gdub
project](http://www.gdub.rocks/) aims to make this more convenient.  
  
---|---  
  
### Executing multiple tasks

You can also specify multiple tasks. For example, the following will execute
the `test` and `deploy` tasks in the order that they are listed on the
command-line and will also execute the dependencies for each task.

    
    
    $ gradle test deploy

### Excluding tasks from execution

You can exclude a task from being executed using the `-x` or `--exclude-task`
command-line option and providing the name of the task to exclude.

![commandLineTutorialTasks](img/commandLineTutorialTasks.png)

Figure 1. Simple Task Graph

Excluding tasks

    
    
    $ gradle dist --exclude-task test
    
    > Task :compile
    compiling source
    
    > Task :dist
    building the distribution
    
    BUILD SUCCESSFUL in 0s
    2 actionable tasks: 2 executed

You can see that the `test` task is not executed, even though it is a
dependency of the `dist` task. The `test` task's dependencies such as
`compileTest` are not executed either. Those dependencies of `test` that are
required by another task, such as `compile`, are still executed.

### Forcing tasks to execute

You can force Gradle to execute all tasks ignoring [up-to-date
checks](more_about_tasks.html#sec:up_to_date_checks) using the `--rerun-tasks`
option:

    
    
    $ gradle test --rerun-tasks

This will force `test` and _all_ task dependencies of `test` to execute. It's
a little like running `gradle clean test`, but without the build's generated
output being deleted.

### Continuing the build when a failure occurs

By default, Gradle will abort execution and fail the build as soon as any task
fails. This allows the build to complete sooner, but hides other failures that
would have occurred. In order to discover as many failures as possible in a
single build execution, you can use the `--continue` option.

    
    
    $ gradle test --continue

When executed with `--continue`, Gradle will execute _every_ task to be
executed where all of the dependencies for that task completed without
failure, instead of stopping as soon as the first failure is encountered. Each
of the encountered failures will be reported at the end of the build.

If a task fails, any subsequent tasks that were depending on it will not be
executed. For example, tests will not run if there is a compilation failure in
the code under test; because the test task will depend on the compilation task
(either directly or indirectly).

### Name abbreviation

When you specify tasks on the command-line, you don’t have to provide the full
name of the task. You only need to provide enough of the task name to uniquely
identify the task. For example, it's likely `gradle che` is enough for Gradle
to identify the `check` task.

The same applies for project names. You can execute the `check` task in the
`library` subproject with the `gradle lib:che` command.

You can use [camel case](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Camel_case) patterns
for more complex abbreviations. These patterns are expanded to match camel
case and [kebab case](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kebab_case) names. For
example the pattern `foBa` (or even `fB`) matches `fooBar` and `foo-bar`.

More concretely, you can run the `compileTest` task in the `my-awesome-
library` subproject with the `gradle mAL:cT` command.

Abbreviated project and task names

    
    
    $ gradle  mAL:cT
    
    > Task :my-awesome-library:compileTest
    compiling unit tests
    
    BUILD SUCCESSFUL in 0s
    1 actionable task: 1 executed

You can also use these abbreviations with the -x command-line option.

## Common tasks

The following are task conventions applied by built-in and most major Gradle
plugins.

### Computing all outputs

It is common in Gradle builds for the `build` task to designate assembling all
outputs and running all checks.

    
    
    $ gradle build

### Running applications

It is common for applications to be run with the `run` task, which assembles
the application and executes some script or binary.

    
    
    $ gradle run

### Running all checks

It is common for _all_ verification tasks, including tests and linting, to be
executed using the `check` task.

    
    
    $ gradle check

### Cleaning outputs

You can delete the contents of the build directory using the `clean` task,
though doing so will cause pre-computed outputs to be lost, causing
significant additional build time for the subsequent task execution.

    
    
    $ gradle clean

## Project reporting

Gradle provides several built-in tasks which show particular details of your
build. This can be useful for understanding the structure and dependencies of
your build, and for debugging problems.

You can get basic help about available reporting options using `gradle help`.

### Listing projects

Running `gradle projects` gives you a list of the sub-projects of the selected
project, displayed in a hierarchy.

    
    
    $ gradle projects

You also get a project report within build scans. Learn more about [creating
build scans](https://scans.gradle.com/).

### Listing tasks

Running `gradle tasks` gives you a list of the main tasks of the selected
project. This report shows the default tasks for the project, if any, and a
description for each task.

    
    
    $ gradle tasks

By default, this report shows only those tasks which have been assigned to a
task group. You can obtain more information in the task listing using the
`--all` option.

    
    
    $ gradle tasks --all

If you need to be more precise, you can display only the tasks from a specific
group using the `--group` option.

    
    
    $ gradle tasks --group="build setup"

### Show task usage details

Running `gradle help --task someTask` gives you detailed information about a
specific task.

Obtaining detailed help for tasks

    
    
    $ gradle -q help --task libs
    Detailed task information for libs
    
    Paths
         :api:libs
         :webapp:libs
    
    Type
         Task (org.gradle.api.Task)
    
    Description
         Builds the JAR
    
    Group
         build

This information includes the full task path, the task type, possible command
line options and the description of the given task.

### Reporting dependencies

Build scans give a full, visual report of what dependencies exist on which
configurations, transitive dependencies, and dependency version selection.

    
    
    $ gradle myTask --scan

This will give you a link to a web-based report, where you can find dependency
information like this.

![Build Scan dependencies report](img/gradle-core-test-build-scan-
dependencies.png)

Learn more in [Viewing and debugging
dependencies](viewing_debugging_dependencies.html).

### Listing project dependencies

Running `gradle dependencies` gives you a list of the dependencies of the
selected project, broken down by configuration. For each configuration, the
direct and transitive dependencies of that configuration are shown in a tree.
Below is an example of this report:

    
    
    $ gradle dependencies

Concrete examples of build scripts and output available in the [Viewing and
debugging dependencies](viewing_debugging_dependencies.html).

Running `gradle buildEnvironment` visualises the buildscript dependencies of
the selected project, similarly to how `gradle dependencies` visualizes the
dependencies of the software being built.

    
    
    $ gradle buildEnvironment

Running `gradle dependencyInsight` gives you an insight into a particular
dependency (or dependencies) that match specified input.

    
    
    $ gradle dependencyInsight

Since a dependency report can get large, it can be useful to restrict the
report to a particular configuration. This is achieved with the optional
`--configuration` parameter:

### Listing project properties

Running `gradle properties` gives you a list of the properties of the selected
project.

Information about properties

    
    
    $ gradle -q api:properties
    
    ------------------------------------------------------------
    Project :api - The shared API for the application
    ------------------------------------------------------------
    
    allprojects: [project ':api']
    ant: org.gradle.api.internal.project.DefaultAntBuilder@12345
    antBuilderFactory: org.gradle.api.internal.project.DefaultAntBuilderFactory@12345
    artifacts: org.gradle.api.internal.artifacts.dsl.DefaultArtifactHandler_Decorated@12345
    asDynamicObject: DynamicObject for project ':api'
    baseClassLoaderScope: org.gradle.api.internal.initialization.DefaultClassLoaderScope@12345

### Software Model reports

You can get a hierarchical view of elements for [software
model](software_model.html#software_model) projects using the `model` task:

    
    
    $ gradle model

Learn more about [the model report](software_model.html#model-report) in the
software model documentation.

## Command-line completion

Gradle provides bash and zsh tab completion support for tasks, options, and
Gradle properties through [gradle-
completion](https://github.com/gradle/gradle-completion), installed
separately.

![gradle completion 4.0](img/gradle-completion-4.0.gif)

Figure 2. Gradle Completion

## Debugging options

`-?`, `-h`, `--help`

    

Shows a help message with all available CLI options.

`-v`, `--version`

    

Prints Gradle, Groovy, Ant, JVM, and operating system version information.

`-S`, `--full-stacktrace`

    

Print out the full (very verbose) stacktrace for any exceptions. See also
logging options.

`-s`, `--stacktrace`

    

Print out the stacktrace also for user exceptions (e.g. compile error). See
also logging options.

`--scan`

    

Create a [build scan](https://gradle.com/build-scans) with fine-grained
information about all aspects of your Gradle build.

`-Dorg.gradle.debug=true`

    

Debug Gradle client (non-Daemon) process. Gradle will wait for you to attach a
debugger at `localhost:5005` by default.

`-Dorg.gradle.daemon.debug=true`

    

Debug [Gradle Daemon](gradle_daemon.html#gradle_daemon) process.

## Performance options

Try these options when optimizing build performance. Learn more about
[improving performance of Gradle builds
here](https://guides.gradle.org/performance/).

Many of these options can be specified in `gradle.properties` so command-line
flags are not necessary. See the [configuring build environment
guide](build_environment.html#sec:gradle_configuration_properties).

`--build-cache`, `--no-build-cache`

    

Toggles the [Gradle build cache](build_cache.html#build_cache). Gradle will
try to reuse outputs from previous builds. _Default is off_.

`--configure-on-demand`, `--no-configure-on-demand`

    

Toggles [Configure-on-
demand](multi_project_configuration_and_execution.html#sec:configuration_on_demand).
Only relevant projects are configured in this build run. _Default is off_.

`--max-workers`

    

Sets maximum number of workers that Gradle may use. _Default is number of
processors_.

`--parallel`, `--no-parallel`

    

Build projects in parallel. For limitations of this option, see [Parallel
Project
Execution](multi_project_configuration_and_execution.html#sec:parallel_execution).
_Default is off_.

`--priority`

    

Specifies the scheduling priority for the Gradle daemon and all processes
launched by it. Values are `normal` or `low`. _Default is normal_.

`--profile`

    

Generates a high-level performance report in the `$buildDir/reports/profile`
directory. `--scan` is preferred.

`--scan`

    

Generate a build scan with detailed performance diagnostics.

![Build Scan performance report](img/gradle-core-test-build-scan-
performance.png)

`--watch-fs`, `--no-watch-fs`

    

Toggles [watching the file system](gradle_daemon.html#sec:daemon_watch_fs).
Allows Gradle to re-use information about the file system in the next build.
_Default is off_.

### Gradle daemon options

You can manage the [Gradle Daemon](gradle_daemon.html#gradle_daemon) through
the following command line options.

`--daemon`, `--no-daemon`

    

Use the [Gradle Daemon](gradle_daemon.html#gradle_daemon) to run the build.
Starts the daemon if not running or existing daemon busy. _Default is on_.

`--foreground`

    

Starts the Gradle Daemon in a foreground process.

`--status` (Standalone command)

    

Run `gradle --status` to list running and recently stopped Gradle daemons.
Only displays daemons of the same Gradle version.

`--stop` (Standalone command)

    

Run `gradle --stop` to stop all Gradle Daemons of the same version.

`-Dorg.gradle.daemon.idletimeout=(number of milliseconds)`

    

Gradle Daemon will stop itself after this number of milliseconds of idle time.
_Default is 10800000_ (3 hours).

## Logging options

### Setting log level

You can customize the verbosity of Gradle logging with the following options,
ordered from least verbose to most verbose. Learn more in the [logging
documentation](logging.html#logging).

`-Dorg.gradle.logging.level=(quiet,warn,lifecycle,info,debug)`

    

Set logging level via Gradle properties.

`-q`, `--quiet`

    

Log errors only.

`-w`, `--warn`

    

Set log level to warn.

`-i`, `--info`

    

Set log level to info.

`-d`, `--debug`

    

Log in debug mode (includes normal stacktrace).

Lifecycle is the default log level.

### Customizing log format

You can control the use of rich output (colors and font variants) by
specifying the "console" mode in the following ways:

`-Dorg.gradle.console=(auto,plain,rich,verbose)`

    

Specify console mode via Gradle properties. Different modes described
immediately below.

`--console=(auto,plain,rich,verbose)`

    

Specifies which type of console output to generate.

Set to `plain` to generate plain text only. This option disables all color and
other rich output in the console output. This is the default when Gradle is
_not_ attached to a terminal.

Set to `auto` (the default) to enable color and other rich output in the
console output when the build process is attached to a console, or to generate
plain text only when not attached to a console. _This is the default when
Gradle is attached to a terminal._

Set to `rich` to enable color and other rich output in the console output,
regardless of whether the build process is not attached to a console. When not
attached to a console, the build output will use ANSI control characters to
generate the rich output.

Set to `verbose` to enable color and other rich output like the `rich`, but
output task names and outcomes at the lifecycle log level, as is done by
default in Gradle 3.5 and earlier.

### Showing or hiding warnings

By default, Gradle won't display all warnings (e.g. deprecation warnings).
Instead, Gradle will collect them and render a summary at the end of the build
like:

    
    
    Deprecated Gradle features were used in this build, making it incompatible with Gradle 5.0.

You can control the verbosity of warnings on the console with the following
options:

`-Dorg.gradle.warning.mode=(all,fail,none,summary)`

    

Specify warning mode via [Gradle
properties](build_environment.html#sec:gradle_configuration_properties).
Different modes described immediately below.

`--warning-mode=(all,fail,none,summary)`

    

Specifies how to log warnings. Default is `summary`.

Set to `all` to log all warnings.

Set to `fail` to log all warnings and fail the build if there are any
warnings.

Set to `summary` to suppress all warnings and log a summary at the end of the
build.

Set to `none` to suppress all warnings, including the summary at the end of
the build.

### Rich Console

Gradle's rich console displays extra information while builds are running.

![Gradle Rich Console](img/rich-cli.png)

Features:

  * Progress bar and timer visually describe overall status

  * Parallel work-in-progress lines below describe what is happening now

  * Colors and fonts are used to highlight important output and errors

## Execution options

The following options affect how builds are executed, by changing what is
built or how dependencies are resolved.

`--include-build`

    

Run the build as a composite, including the specified build. See [Composite
Builds](composite_builds.html#composite_builds).

`--offline`

    

Specifies that the build should operate without accessing network resources.
Learn more about [options to override dependency
caching](dynamic_versions.html#sec:controlling_dependency_caching_command_line).

`--refresh-dependencies`

    

Refresh the state of dependencies. Learn more about how to use this in the
[dependency management
docs](dynamic_versions.html#sec:controlling_dependency_caching_command_line).

`--dry-run`

    

Run Gradle with all task actions disabled. Use this to show which task would
have executed.

`--write-locks`

    

Indicates that all resolved configurations that are _lockable_ should have
their lock state persisted. Learn more about this in [dependency
locking](dependency_locking.html#dependency-locking).

`--update-locks <group:name>[,<group:name>]*`

    

Indicates that versions for the specified modules have to be updated in the
lock file. This flag also implies `--write-locks`. Learn more about this in
[dependency locking](dependency_locking.html#dependency-locking).

`--no-rebuild`

    

Do not rebuild project dependencies. Useful for [debugging and fine-tuning
`buildSrc`](organizing_gradle_projects.html#sec:build_sources), but can lead
to wrong results. Use with caution!

## Environment options

You can customize many aspects about where build scripts, settings, caches,
and so on through the options below. Learn more about customizing your [build
environment](build_environment.html#build_environment).

`-b`, `--build-file`

    

Specifies the build file. For example: `gradle --build-file=foo.gradle`. The
default is `build.gradle`, then `build.gradle.kts`, then
`myProjectName.gradle`.

`-c`, `--settings-file`

    

Specifies the settings file. For example: `gradle --settings-
file=somewhere/else/settings.gradle`

`-g`, `--gradle-user-home`

    

Specifies the Gradle user home directory. The default is the `.gradle`
directory in the user's home directory.

`-p`, `--project-dir`

    

Specifies the start directory for Gradle. Defaults to current directory.

`--project-cache-dir`

    

Specifies the project-specific cache directory. Default value is `.gradle` in
the root project directory.

`-D`, `--system-prop`

    

Sets a system property of the JVM, for example `-Dmyprop=myvalue`. See [System
Properties](build_environment.html#sec:gradle_system_properties).

`-I`, `--init-script`

    

Specifies an initialization script. See [Init
Scripts](init_scripts.html#init_scripts).

`-P`, `--project-prop`

    

Sets a project property of the root project, for example `-Pmyprop=myvalue`.
See [Project Properties](build_environment.html#sec:project_properties).

`-Dorg.gradle.jvmargs`

    

Set JVM arguments.

`-Dorg.gradle.java.home`

    

Set JDK home dir.

## Bootstrapping new projects

### Creating new Gradle builds

Use the built-in `gradle init` task to create a new Gradle builds, with new or
existing projects.

    
    
    $ gradle init

Most of the time you'll want to specify a project type. Available types
include `basic` (default), `java-library`, `java-application`, and more. See
[init plugin documentation](build_init_plugin.html#build_init_plugin) for
details.

    
    
    $ gradle init --type java-library

### Standardize and provision Gradle

The built-in `gradle wrapper` task generates a script, `gradlew`, that invokes
a declared version of Gradle, downloading it beforehand if necessary.

    
    
    $ gradle wrapper --gradle-version=4.4

You can also specify `--distribution-type=(bin|all)`, `--gradle-distribution-
url`, `--gradle-distribution-sha256-sum` in addition to `--gradle-version`.
Full details on how to use these options are documented in the [Gradle wrapper
section](gradle_wrapper.html#gradle_wrapper).

## Continuous Build

Continuous Build allows you to automatically re-execute the requested tasks
when task inputs change.

For example, you can continuously run the `test` task and all dependent tasks
by running:

    
    
    $ gradle test --continuous

Gradle will behave as if you ran `gradle test` after a change to sources or
tests that contribute to the requested tasks. This means that unrelated
changes (such as changes to build scripts) will not trigger a rebuild. In
order to incorporate build logic changes, the continuous build must be
restarted manually.

### Terminating Continuous Build

If Gradle is attached to an interactive input source, such as a terminal, the
continuous build can be exited by pressing `CTRL-D` (On Microsoft Windows, it
is required to also press `ENTER` or `RETURN` after `CTRL-D`). If Gradle is
not attached to an interactive input source (e.g. is running as part of a
script), the build process must be terminated (e.g. using the `kill` command
or similar). If the build is being executed via the Tooling API, the build can
be cancelled using the Tooling API's cancellation mechanism.

### Limitations and quirks

There are several issues to be aware with the current implementation of
continuous build. These are likely to be addressed in future Gradle releases.

#### Build cycles

Gradle starts watching for changes just before a task executes. If a task
modifies its own inputs while executing, Gradle will detect the change and
trigger a new build. If every time the task executes, the inputs are modified
again, the build will be triggered again. This isn't unique to continuous
build. A task that modifies its own inputs will never be considered up-to-date
when run "normally" without continuous build.

If your build enters a build cycle like this, you can track down the task by
looking at the list of files reported changed by Gradle. After identifying the
file(s) that are changed during each build, you should look for a task that
has that file as an input. In some cases, it may be obvious (e.g., a Java file
is compiled with `compileJava`). In other cases, you can use `--info` logging
to find the task that is out-of-date due to the identified files.

#### Restrictions with Java 9

Due to class access restrictions related to Java 9, Gradle cannot set some
operating system specific options, which means that:

  * On macOS, Gradle will poll for file changes every 10 seconds instead of every 2 seconds.

  * On Windows, Gradle must use individual file watches (like on Linux/Mac OS), which may cause continuous build to no longer work on very large projects.

#### Performance and stability

The JDK file watching facility relies on inefficient file system polling on
macOS (see: [JDK-7133447](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-7133447)).
This can significantly delay notification of changes on large projects with
many source files.

Additionally, the watching mechanism may deadlock under _heavy_ load on macOS
(see: [JDK-8079620](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8079620)). This
will manifest as Gradle appearing not to notice file changes. If you suspect
this is occurring, exit continuous build and start again.

On Linux, OpenJDK's implementation of the file watch service can sometimes
miss file system events (see:
[JDK-8145981](https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8145981)).

#### Changes to symbolic links

  * Creating or removing symbolic link to files will initiate a build.

  * Modifying the target of a symbolic link will not cause a rebuild.

  * Creating or removing symbolic links to directories will not cause rebuilds.

  * Creating new files in the target directory of a symbolic link will not cause a rebuild.

  * Deleting the target directory will not cause a rebuild.

#### Changes to build logic are not considered

The current implementation does not recalculate the build model on subsequent
builds. This means that changes to task configuration, or any other change to
the build model, are effectively ignored.

**Docs**

  * [User Manual](/userguide/userguide.html)
  * [DSL Reference](/dsl/)
  * [Release Notes](/release-notes.html)
  * [Javadoc](/javadoc/)

**News**

  * [Blog](https://blog.gradle.org/)
  * [Newsletter](https://newsletter.gradle.com/)
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/gradle)
  * [Status Page](https://status.gradle.com/)

**Products**

  * [Build Scans](https://gradle.com/build-scans/)
  * [Build Cache](https://gradle.com/build-cache/)
  * [Enterprise Docs](https://gradle.com/enterprise/resources/)

**Get Help**

  * [Forums](https://discuss.gradle.org/c/help-discuss)
  * [GitHub](https://github.com/gradle/)
  * [Training](https://gradle.com/training/)
  * [Services](https://gradle.org/services/)

##### Stay `UP-TO-DATE` on new features and news

By entering your email, you agree to our
[Terms](https://gradle.com/legal/terms-of-service/) and [Privacy
Policy](https://gradle.com/legal/privacy/), including receipt of emails. You
can unsubscribe at any time.

Subscribe

© [Gradle Inc.](https://gradle.com) 2020 All rights reserved.

[ gradle ](/)

[Careers](https://gradle.com/careers/) |
[Privacy](https://gradle.com/legal/privacy/) | [Terms of
Service](https://gradle.com/legal/terms-of-service/) |
[Contact](https://gradle.org/contact/)

