

[ Gradle ](https://docs.gradle.org "Gradle Docs")

User Manual

  * Community Open Community Menu

[ Community Home ](https://gradle.org/)

[ Community Forums ](https://discuss.gradle.org/)

[ Community Plugins ](https://plugins.gradle.org)

  * [Training](https://gradle.com/training/)
  * News Open Community Menu

[ Newsletter ](https://newsletter.gradle.com)

[ Blog ](https://blog.gradle.org)

[ Twitter ](https://twitter.com/gradle)

  * [Enterprise](https://gradle.com)
  * [github](https://github.com/gradle/gradle "Gradle on GitHub")

  * [Docs Home](../userguide/userguide.html)
  * [Samples](../samples/index.html)
  * [Release Notes](../release-notes.html)
  * Gradle DSLs and API
    * [Javadoc](../javadoc/index.html?overview-summary.html)
    * [Groovy DSL Reference](../dsl/index.html)
    * [Groovy DSL Primer](../userguide/groovy_build_script_primer.html)
    * [Kotlin DSL API](https://gradle.github.io/kotlin-dsl-docs/api/)
    * [Kotlin DSL Primer](../userguide/kotlin_dsl.html)
    * [Groovy to Kotlin DSL Migration](../userguide/migrating_from_groovy_to_kotlin_dsl.html)

### User Manual

[ PDF ](../userguide/userguide.pdf)

  * [What is Gradle?](../userguide/what_is_gradle.html)
  * [Getting Started](../userguide/getting_started.html)
  * [Installing Gradle](../userguide/installation.html)
  * Upgrading Gradle...
    * [version 6.X to latest](../userguide/upgrading_version_6.html)
    * [version 5.X to 6.0](../userguide/upgrading_version_5.html)
    * [version 4.X to 5.0](../userguide/upgrading_version_4.html)
    * [Gradle's Feature Lifecycle](../userguide/feature_lifecycle.html)
  * Migrating to Gradle...
    * [from Maven](../userguide/migrating_from_maven.html)
    * [from Ant](../userguide/migrating_from_ant.html)
  * [Compatibility Notes](../userguide/compatibility.html)
  * [Troubleshooting Builds](../userguide/troubleshooting.html)

### Running Gradle Builds

  * Customizing Execution
    * [Configuring the Build Environment](../userguide/build_environment.html)
    * [Configuring the Gradle Daemon](../userguide/gradle_daemon.html)
    * [Using Initialization Scripts](../userguide/init_scripts.html)
  * [Executing Multi-Project Builds](../userguide/intro_multi_project_builds.html)
  * [Inspecting Gradle Builds](https://scans.gradle.com/)
  * Using the Build Cache
    * [Enabling and Configuring](../userguide/build_cache.html)
    * [Why use the Build Cache?](../userguide/build_cache_use_cases.html)
    * [Understanding the Impact](../userguide/build_cache_performance.html)
    * [Learning Basic Concepts](../userguide/build_cache_concepts.html)
    * [Caching Java Project](../userguide/caching_java_projects.html)
    * [Caching Android Project](../userguide/caching_android_projects.html)
    * [Debugging Caching Issues](../userguide/build_cache_debugging.html)
    * [Troubleshooting](../userguide/common_caching_problems.html)
  * Optimizing Build Times
    * [Improving Performance of Gradle Builds](../userguide/performance.html)
    * [Using the Configuration Cache](../userguide/configuration_cache.html)

### Authoring Gradle Builds

  * Learning the Basics
    * [Writing Build Scripts](../userguide/tutorial_using_tasks.html)
    * [Working with Tasks](../userguide/more_about_tasks.html)
    * [Learning More About Build Scripts](../userguide/writing_build_scripts.html)
    * [Working with Files](../userguide/working_with_files.html)
    * [Using Gradle Plugins](../userguide/plugins.html)
    * [Understanding the Build Lifecycle](../userguide/build_lifecycle.html)
    * [Working with Logging](../userguide/logging.html)
    * [Avoiding Traps](../userguide/potential_traps.html)
  * Structuring Individual Builds
    * [Creating a Basic Multi-Project Build](../userguide/multi_project_builds.html)
    * [Declaring Dependencies between Subprojects](../userguide/declaring_dependencies_between_subprojects.html)
    * [Sharing Build Logic between Subprojects](../userguide/sharing_build_logic_between_subprojects.html)
    * [Fine Tuning the Project Layout](../userguide/fine_tuning_project_layout.html)
    * [Understanding Configuration and Execution](../userguide/multi_project_configuration_and_execution.html)
  * Structuring Software Products
    * [Structuring large Projects](../userguide/structuring_software_products.html)
    * [Tweaking Project Structure](../userguide/structuring_software_products_details.html)
    * [Composing Builds](../userguide/composite_builds.html)
  * Authoring Sustainable Builds
    * [Organizing Build Logic](../userguide/organizing_gradle_projects.html)
    * [Following Best Practices](../userguide/authoring_maintainable_build_scripts.html)
  * Advanced Techniques
    * [Testing a Build with TestKit](../userguide/test_kit.html)
    * [Using Ant from Gradle](../userguide/ant.html)

### Authoring JVM Builds

  * [Building Java & JVM projects](../userguide/building_java_projects.html)
  * [Testing Java & JVM projects](../userguide/java_testing.html)
  * [Toolchains for Java projects](../userguide/toolchains.html)
  * [Managing Dependencies](../userguide/dependency_management_for_java_projects.html)
  * JVM Plugins
    * [Java Library Plugin](../userguide/java_library_plugin.html)
    * [Java Application Plugin](../userguide/application_plugin.html)
    * [Java Platform Plugin](../userguide/java_platform_plugin.html)
    * [Groovy Plugin](../userguide/groovy_plugin.html)
    * [Scala Plugin](../userguide/scala_plugin.html)

### Authoring C++/Swift Builds

  * [Building C++ projects](../userguide/building_cpp_projects.html)
  * [Testing C++ projects](../userguide/cpp_testing.html)
  * [Building Swift projects](../userguide/building_swift_projects.html)
  * [Testing Swift projects](../userguide/swift_testing.html)

### Working with Dependencies

  * Learning the Basics
    * [What is Dependency Management?](../userguide/core_dependency_management.html)
    * [Declaring Repositories](../userguide/declaring_repositories.html)
    * [Declaring Dependencies](../userguide/declaring_dependencies.html)
    * [Understanding Library and Application Differences](../userguide/library_vs_application.html)
    * [Viewing and Debugging Dependencies](../userguide/viewing_debugging_dependencies.html)
    * [Understanding Resolution](../userguide/dependency_resolution.html)
    * [Verifying dependencies](../userguide/dependency_verification.html)
  * Declaring Versions
    * [Declaring Versions and Ranges](../userguide/single_versions.html)
    * [Declaring Rich Versions](../userguide/rich_versions.html)
    * [Handling Changing Versions](../userguide/dynamic_versions.html)
    * [Locking Versions](../userguide/dependency_locking.html)
  * Controlling Transitives
    * [Upgrading Versions](../userguide/dependency_constraints.html)
    * [Downgrading and Excluding](../userguide/dependency_downgrade_and_exclude.html)
    * [Sharing Versions](../userguide/platforms.html)
    * [Aligning Dependencies](../userguide/dependency_version_alignment.html)
    * [Handling Mutually Exclusive Dependencies](../userguide/dependency_capability_conflict.html)
    * [Fixing Metadata](../userguide/component_metadata_rules.html)
    * [Customizing Resolution](../userguide/resolution_rules.html)
    * [Preventing accidental upgrades](../userguide/resolution_strategy_tuning.html)
  * Producing and Consuming Variants of Libraries
    * [Declaring Capabilities of a Library](../userguide/component_capabilities.html)
    * [Modeling Feature Variants and Optional Dependencies](../userguide/feature_variants.html)
    * [Understanding Variant Selection](../userguide/variant_model.html)
    * [Declaring Variant Attributes](../userguide/variant_attributes.html)
    * [Sharing Outputs of Projects](../userguide/cross_project_publications.html)
    * [Transforming Artifacts](../userguide/artifact_transforms.html)
  * Publishing Libraries
    * [Setting up Publishing](../userguide/publishing_setup.html)
    * [Understanding Gradle Module Metadata](../userguide/publishing_gradle_module_metadata.html)
    * [Signing Artifacts](../userguide/publishing_signing.html)
    * [Customizing Publishing](../userguide/publishing_customization.html)
    * [Maven Publish Plugin](../userguide/publishing_maven.html)
    * [Ivy Publish Plugin](../userguide/publishing_ivy.html)
  * [Terminology](../userguide/dependency_management_terminology.html)

### Extending Gradle

  * Developing Gradle Plugins
    * [Starting Plugin Development](../userguide/custom_plugins.html)
    * [Designing Plugins](../userguide/designing_gradle_plugins.html)
    * [Implementing Plugins](../userguide/implementing_gradle_plugins.html)
    * [Testing Plugins](../userguide/testing_gradle_plugins.html)
    * [Publishing Plugins](../userguide/publishing_gradle_plugins.html)
  * Developing Gradle Tasks
    * [Writing Gradle Task Types](../userguide/custom_tasks.html)
    * [Configuring Tasks Lazily](../userguide/lazy_configuration.html)
    * [Avoiding Unnecessary Task Configuration](../userguide/task_configuration_avoidance.html)
    * [Developing Parallel Tasks](../userguide/worker_api.html)
  * [Writing Custom Gradle Types](../userguide/custom_gradle_types.html)

### Reference

  * [Core Plugins](../userguide/plugin_reference.html)
  * [Command-Line Interface](../userguide/command_line_interface.html)
  * Gradle & Third-party Tools
    * [Third-party Tools](../userguide/third_party_integration.html)
    * [Jenkins](../userguide/jenkins.html)
    * [TeamCity](../userguide/teamcity.html)
    * [Travis CI](../userguide/travis-ci.html)
  * [](../userguide/third_party_integration.html)
  * [The Gradle Wrapper](../userguide/gradle_wrapper.html)
  * [Gradle-managed Directories](../userguide/directory_layout.html)

# Sharing Build Logic between Subprojects

version 6.9-20201126230040+0000

Contents

  * Convention Plugins
  * Cross project configuration

## Convention Plugins

Usually, subprojects in a multi-project build share some common traits. For
example, several subprojects may contain _code_ in a particular programming
language while another subproject may be dedicated for _documentation_. Code
quality rules apply to all of the _code_ subprojects but not the
_documentation_ subproject. At the same time, the subprojects that share one
common trait may serve different purposes - they may produce different
_artifact types_ that further differentiate them, for example:

  * _public libraries_ \- libraries that are published to some repository

  * _internal libraries_ \- libraries on which other subprojects depend on internally within the project

  * _command line applications_ \- applications with specific packaging requirements

  * _web services_ \- applications with specific packaging requirements that are different from above

  * etc

Some other _code_ subprojects may be dedicated for _testing purposes_ and so
on.

The traits above identify a subproject's _type_. Or in other words, a
subproject's _type_ tells us what traits the project has.

Gradle's recommended way of organizing build logic is to use its plugin
system. A plugin should define the _type_ of a subproject. In fact, [Gradle
core plugins](plugin_reference.html) are modeled in the same way - for
example, the [Java Plugin](java_plugin.html) configures a generic `java`
project, while [Java Library Plugin](java_library_plugin.html) internally
applies the [Java Plugin](java_plugin.html) and configures aspects specific to
a Java library in addition. Similarly, the [Application
Plugin](application_plugin.html) applies and configures the [Java
Plugin](java_plugin.html) and the [Distribution
Plugin](distribution_plugin.html).

You can compose custom build logic by applying and configuring both core and
external plugins and create custom plugins that define new project _types_ and
configure conventions specific to your project or organization. For each of
the example traits from the beginning of this section, we can write a plugin
that encapsulates the logic common to the subproject of a given _type_.

We recommend putting source code and tests for the convention plugins in the
special `buildSrc` directory in the root directory of the project. For more
information about `buildSrc`, consult [Using buildSrc to organize build
logic](organizing_gradle_projects.html#sec:build_sources).

Have a look at the [sample that demonstrates a multi-project build that models
the build logic using convention
plugins](../samples/sample_convention_plugins.html).

Another, more complex and real-world example of a multi-project build that
composes build logic using convention plugins is the build of the [Gradle
Build Tool](https://github.com/gradle/gradle) itself.

## Cross project configuration

Another, discouraged, way to share build logic between subproject is _cross
project configuration_ via the `subprojects {}` and `allprojects {}` DSL
constructs. With cross configuration, build logic can be injected into a
subproject and this is not obvious when looking at the subproject's build
script, making it harder to understand the logic of a particular subproject.
In the long run, cross configuration usually grows complex with more and more
conditional logic and a higher maintenance burden. Cross configuration can
also introduce [configuration-time coupling between
projects](multi_project_configuration_and_execution.html#sec:decoupled_projects),
which can prevent optimizations like [configuration-on-
demand](multi_project_configuration_and_execution.html#sec:configuration_on_demand)
from working properly.

There are two most common uses of cross-configuration that can be better
modelled using convention plugins:

  * Applying plugins or other configuration to subprojects of certain type. Often the cross-configuration section will do `if subproject is of type X, then configure Y`. This is equivalent to applying `X-conventions` plugin directly to a subproject.

  * Extracting information from subprojects of a certain type. This use case can be modelled using [outgoing configuration variants](cross_project_publications.html#sec:simple-sharing-artifacts-between-projects).

**Docs**

  * [User Manual](/userguide/userguide.html)
  * [DSL Reference](/dsl/)
  * [Release Notes](/release-notes.html)
  * [Javadoc](/javadoc/)

**News**

  * [Blog](https://blog.gradle.org/)
  * [Newsletter](https://newsletter.gradle.com/)
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/gradle)
  * [Status Page](https://status.gradle.com/)

**Products**

  * [Build Scans](https://gradle.com/build-scans/)
  * [Build Cache](https://gradle.com/build-cache/)
  * [Enterprise Docs](https://gradle.com/enterprise/resources/)

**Get Help**

  * [Forums](https://discuss.gradle.org/c/help-discuss)
  * [GitHub](https://github.com/gradle/)
  * [Training](https://gradle.com/training/)
  * [Services](https://gradle.org/services/)

##### Stay `UP-TO-DATE` on new features and news

By entering your email, you agree to our
[Terms](https://gradle.com/legal/terms-of-service/) and [Privacy
Policy](https://gradle.com/legal/privacy/), including receipt of emails. You
can unsubscribe at any time.

Subscribe

© [Gradle Inc.](https://gradle.com) 2020 All rights reserved.

[ gradle ](/)

[Careers](https://gradle.com/careers/) |
[Privacy](https://gradle.com/legal/privacy/) | [Terms of
Service](https://gradle.com/legal/terms-of-service/) |
[Contact](https://gradle.org/contact/)

