

[ Gradle ](https://docs.gradle.org "Gradle Docs")

User Manual

  * Community Open Community Menu

[ Community Home ](https://gradle.org/)

[ Community Forums ](https://discuss.gradle.org/)

[ Community Plugins ](https://plugins.gradle.org)

  * [Training](https://gradle.com/training/)
  * News Open Community Menu

[ Newsletter ](https://newsletter.gradle.com)

[ Blog ](https://blog.gradle.org)

[ Twitter ](https://twitter.com/gradle)

  * [Enterprise](https://gradle.com)
  * [github](https://github.com/gradle/gradle "Gradle on GitHub")

  * [Docs Home](../userguide/userguide.html)
  * [Samples](../samples/index.html)
  * [Release Notes](../release-notes.html)
  * Gradle API
    * [Javadoc](../javadoc/index.html?overview-summary.html)
    * [Groovy DSL Reference](../dsl/index.html)
    * [Groovy DSL Primer](../userguide/groovy_build_script_primer.html)
    * [Kotlin DSL API](https://gradle.github.io/kotlin-dsl-docs/api/)
    * [Kotlin DSL Primer](../userguide/kotlin_dsl.html)

### User Manual

[ PDF ](../userguide/userguide.pdf)

  * [What is Gradle?](../userguide/what_is_gradle.html)
  * [Getting Started](../userguide/getting_started.html)
  * [Installing Gradle](../userguide/installation.html)
  * Upgrading Gradle...
    * [version 6.X to latest](../userguide/upgrading_version_6.html)
    * [version 5.X to 6.0](../userguide/upgrading_version_5.html)
    * [version 4.X to 5.0](../userguide/upgrading_version_4.html)
    * [Gradle's Feature Lifecycle](../userguide/feature_lifecycle.html)
  * Migrating to Gradle...
    * [from Maven](../userguide/migrating_from_maven.html)
    * [from Ant](../userguide/migrating_from_ant.html)
  * [Compatibility Notes](../userguide/compatibility.html)
  * [Troubleshooting Builds](../userguide/troubleshooting.html)

### Running Gradle Builds

  * Customizing Execution
    * [Configuring the Build Environment](../userguide/build_environment.html)
    * [Configuring the Gradle Daemon](../userguide/gradle_daemon.html)
    * [Using Initialization Scripts](../userguide/init_scripts.html)
  * [Executing Multi-Project Builds](../userguide/intro_multi_project_builds.html)
  * [Inspecting Gradle Builds](https://scans.gradle.com/)
  * Optimizing Build Times
    * [Build Performance Guide](https://guides.gradle.org/performance/)
    * [Enabling and Configuring the Build Cache](../userguide/build_cache.html)
    * [Using the Configuration Cache](../userguide/configuration_cache.html)

### Authoring Gradle Builds

  * Learning the Basics
    * [Introducing the Basics of Build Scripts](../userguide/tutorial_using_tasks.html)
    * [Working with Tasks](../userguide/more_about_tasks.html)
    * [Learning More About Build Scripts](../userguide/writing_build_scripts.html)
    * [Working with Files](../userguide/working_with_files.html)
    * [Using Gradle Plugins](../userguide/plugins.html)
    * [Understanding the Build Lifecycle](../userguide/build_lifecycle.html)
    * [Working with Logging](../userguide/logging.html)
    * [Avoiding Traps](../userguide/potential_traps.html)
  * Authoring Multi-Project Builds
    * [Creating a Basic Multi-Project Build](../userguide/multi_project_builds.html)
    * [Declaring Dependencies between Subprojects](../userguide/declaring_dependencies_between_subprojects.html)
    * [Sharing Build Logic between Subprojects](../userguide/sharing_build_logic_between_subprojects.html)
    * [Fine Tuning the Project Layout](../userguide/fine_tuning_project_layout.html)
    * [Understanding Configuration and Execution](../userguide/multi_project_configuration_and_execution.html)
  * Authoring Sustainable Builds
    * [Organizing Build Logic](../userguide/organizing_gradle_projects.html)
    * [Following Best Practices](../userguide/authoring_maintainable_build_scripts.html)
  * Advanced Techniques
    * [Developing Parallel Tasks](https://guides.gradle.org/using-the-worker-api/)
    * [Testing a Build with TestKit](../userguide/test_kit.html)
    * [Using Ant from Gradle](../userguide/ant.html)

### Authoring JVM Builds

  * [Building Java & JVM projects](../userguide/building_java_projects.html)
  * [Testing Java & JVM projects](../userguide/java_testing.html)
  * [Toolchains for Java projects](../userguide/toolchains.html)
  * [Managing Dependencies](../userguide/dependency_management_for_java_projects.html)
  * JVM Plugins
    * [Java Library Plugin](../userguide/java_library_plugin.html)
    * [Java Application Plugin](../userguide/application_plugin.html)
    * [Java Platform Plugin](../userguide/java_platform_plugin.html)
    * [Groovy Plugin](../userguide/groovy_plugin.html)
    * [Scala Plugin](../userguide/scala_plugin.html)

### Authoring C++/Swift Builds

  * [Building C++ projects](../userguide/building_cpp_projects.html)
  * [Testing C++ projects](../userguide/cpp_testing.html)
  * [Building Swift projects](../userguide/building_swift_projects.html)
  * [Testing Swift projects](../userguide/swift_testing.html)

### Working with Dependencies

  * Learning the Basics
    * [What is Dependency Management?](../userguide/core_dependency_management.html)
    * [Declaring Repositories](../userguide/declaring_repositories.html)
    * [Declaring Dependencies](../userguide/declaring_dependencies.html)
    * [Understanding Library and Application Differences](../userguide/library_vs_application.html)
    * [Viewing and Debugging Dependencies](../userguide/viewing_debugging_dependencies.html)
    * [Understanding Resolution](../userguide/dependency_resolution.html)
    * [Verifying dependencies](../userguide/dependency_verification.html)
  * Declaring Versions
    * [Declaring Versions and Ranges](../userguide/single_versions.html)
    * [Declaring Rich Versions](../userguide/rich_versions.html)
    * [Handling Changing Versions](../userguide/dynamic_versions.html)
    * [Locking Versions](../userguide/dependency_locking.html)
  * Controlling Transitives
    * [Upgrading Versions](../userguide/dependency_constraints.html)
    * [Downgrading and Excluding](../userguide/dependency_downgrade_and_exclude.html)
    * [Sharing Versions](../userguide/platforms.html)
    * [Aligning Dependencies](../userguide/dependency_version_alignment.html)
    * [Handling Mutually Exclusive Dependencies](../userguide/dependency_capability_conflict.html)
    * [Fixing Metadata](../userguide/component_metadata_rules.html)
    * [Customizing Resolution](../userguide/resolution_rules.html)
    * [Preventing accidental upgrades](../userguide/resolution_strategy_tuning.html)
  * Producing and Consuming Variants of Libraries
    * [Declaring Capabilities of a Library](../userguide/component_capabilities.html)
    * [Modeling Feature Variants and Optional Dependencies](../userguide/feature_variants.html)
    * [Understanding Variant Selection](../userguide/variant_model.html)
    * [Declaring Variant Attributes](../userguide/variant_attributes.html)
    * [Sharing Outputs of Projects](../userguide/cross_project_publications.html)
    * [Transforming Artifacts](../userguide/artifact_transforms.html)
  * Working in a Multi-repo Environment
    * [Composing Builds](../userguide/composite_builds.html)
  * Publishing Libraries
    * [Setting up Publishing](../userguide/publishing_setup.html)
    * [Understanding Gradle Module Metadata](../userguide/publishing_gradle_module_metadata.html)
    * [Signing Artifacts](../userguide/publishing_signing.html)
    * [Customizing Publishing](../userguide/publishing_customization.html)
    * [Maven Publish Plugin](../userguide/publishing_maven.html)
    * [Ivy Publish Plugin](../userguide/publishing_ivy.html)
  * [Terminology](../userguide/dependency_management_terminology.html)

### Extending Gradle

  * [Plugin Development Tutorials](https://gradle.org/guides/?q=Plugin%20Development)
  * [Writing Gradle Task Types](../userguide/custom_tasks.html)
  * [Writing Gradle Plugins](../userguide/custom_plugins.html)
  * [Writing Custom Gradle Types](../userguide/custom_gradle_types.html)
  * [Configuring Tasks Lazily](../userguide/lazy_configuration.html)
  * [Using Task Configuration Avoidance](../userguide/task_configuration_avoidance.html)

### Reference

  * [Core Plugins](../userguide/plugin_reference.html)
  * [Command-Line Interface](../userguide/command_line_interface.html)
  * [Gradle & Third-party Tools](../userguide/third_party_integration.html)
  * [The Gradle Wrapper](../userguide/gradle_wrapper.html)
  * [Gradle-managed Directories](../userguide/directory_layout.html)

# Declaring Versions and Ranges

version 6.7.1

Contents

  * Version ordering
  * Simple version declaration semantics
  * Declaring a dependency without version

The simplest version declaration is a _simple string_ representing the version
to use. Gradle supports different ways of declaring a version string:

  * An exact version: e.g. `1.3`, `1.3.0-beta3`, `1.0-20150201.131010-1`

  * A Maven-style version range: e.g. `[1.0,)`, `[1.1, 2.0)`, `(1.2, 1.5]`

    * The `[` and `]` symbols indicate an inclusive bound; `(` and `)` indicate an exclusive bound.

    * When the upper or lower bound is missing, the range has no upper or lower bound.

    * The symbol `]` can be used instead of `(` for an exclusive lower bound, and `[` instead of `)` for exclusive upper bound. e.g `]1.0, 2.0[`

  * A _prefix_ version range: e.g. `1.+`, `1.3.+`

    * Only versions exactly matching the portion before the `+` are included.

    * The range `+` on it's own will include any version.

  * A `latest-status` version: e.g. `latest.integration`, `latest.release`

    * Will match the highest versioned module with the specified status. See [ComponentMetadata.getStatus()](../javadoc/org/gradle/api/artifacts/ComponentMetadata.html#getStatus--).

  * A Maven `SNAPSHOT` version identifier: e.g. `1.0-SNAPSHOT`, `1.4.9-beta1-SNAPSHOT`

__ |

Gradle 6.5 supports an alternate, opt-in, behaviour for version ranges.

When an upper bound excludes a version, it also acts as a prefix exclude. This
means that `[1.0, 2.0[` will also exclude all versions starting with `2.0`
that are smaller than `2.0`. For example versions like `2.0-dev1` or
`2.0-SNAPSHOT` are no longer included in the range.

Activating the feature preview `VERSION_ORDERING_V2` in
`settings.gradle(.kts)` enables this change:

    
    
    enableFeaturePreview("VERSION_ORDERING_V2")

This change will become the default in Gradle 7.0.  
  
---|---  
  
## Version ordering

Versions have an implicit ordering. Version ordering is used to:

  * Determine if a particular version is included in a range.

  * Determine which version is 'newest' when performing conflict resolution.

Versions are ordered based on the following rules:

  * Each version is split into it's constituent "parts":

    * The characters `[. - _ +]` are used to separate the different "parts" of a version.

    * Any part that contains both digits and letters is split into separate parts for each: `1a1 == 1.a.1`

    * Only the parts of a version are compared. The actual separator characters are not significant: `1.a.1 == 1-a+1 == 1.a-1 == 1a1`

  * The equivalent parts of 2 versions are compared using the following rules:

    * If both parts are numeric, the highest numeric value is **higher** : `1.1` < `1.2`

    * If one part is numeric, it is considered **higher** than the non-numeric part: `1.a` < `1.1`

    * If both are not numeric, the parts are compared **alphabetically, case-sensitive** : `1.A` < `1.B` < `1.a` < `1.b`

    * A version with an extra numeric part is considered **higher** than a version without: `1.1` < `1.1.0`

    * A version with an extra non-numeric part is considered **lower** than a version without: `1.1.a` < `1.1`

  * Certain string values have special meaning for the purposes of ordering:

    * The string `dev` is consider **lower** than any other string part: `1.0-dev` < `1.0-alpha` < `1.0-rc`.

    * The strings `rc`, `release` and `final` are considered **higher** than any other string part (sorted in that order): `1.0-zeta` < `1.0-rc` < `1.0-release` < `1.0-final` < `1.0`.

    * The string `SNAPSHOT` has **no special meaning** , and is sorted alphabetically like any other string part: `1.0-alpha` < `1.0-SNAPSHOT` < `1.0-zeta` < `1.0-rc` < `1.0`.

    * Numeric snapshot versions have **no special meaning** , and are sorted like any other numeric part: `1.0` < `1.0-20150201.121010-123` < `1.1`.

__ |

Gradle 6.5 supports an alternate, opt-in, version ordering scheme which
special cases more suffixes:

  * The string `SNAPSHOT` will be ordered higher than `rc`: `1.0-RC` < `1.0-SNAPSHOT` < `1.0`

  * The string `GA` will be ordered next to `FINAL` and `RELEASE`, in alphabetical order: `1.0-RC` < `1.0-FINAL` < `1.0-GA` < `1.0-RELEASE` < `1.0`

  * The string `SP` will be ordered higher than `RELEASE`, it remains however lower than an unqualified version, limiting its use to versioning schemes using either `FINAL`, `GA` or `RELEASE`: `1.0-RELEASE` < `1.0-SP1` < `1.0`

Activating the feature preview `VERSION_ORDERING_V2` in
`settings.gradle(.kts)` enables this set of changes:

    
    
    enableFeaturePreview("VERSION_ORDERING_V2")

These changes will become the default in Gradle 7.0.  
  
---|---  
  
## Simple version declaration semantics

When you declare a version using the short-hand notation, for example:

Example 1. A simple declaration

build.gradle

    
    
    dependencies {
        implementation('org.slf4j:slf4j-api:1.7.15')
    }

build.gradle.kts

    
    
    dependencies {
        implementation("org.slf4j:slf4j-api:1.7.15")
    }

Then the version is considered a [required
version](rich_versions.html#sec:required-version) which means that it should
_minimally_ be `1.7.15` but can be upgraded by the engine (optimistic
upgrade).

There is, however, a shorthand notation for [strict
versions](rich_versions.html#sec:strict-version), using the `!!` notation:

Example 2. Shorthand notation for strict dependencies

build.gradle

    
    
    dependencies {
        // short-hand notation with !!
        implementation('org.slf4j:slf4j-api:1.7.15!!')
        // is equivalent to
        implementation("org.slf4j:slf4j-api") {
            version {
               strictly '1.7.15'
            }
        }
    
        // or...
        implementation('org.slf4j:slf4j-api:[1.7, 1.8[!!1.7.25')
        // is equivalent to
        implementation('org.slf4j:slf4j-api') {
            version {
               strictly '[1.7, 1.8['
               prefer '1.7.25'
            }
        }
    }

build.gradle.kts

    
    
    dependencies {
        // short-hand notation with !!
        implementation("org.slf4j:slf4j-api:1.7.15!!")
        // is equivalent to
        implementation("org.slf4j:slf4j-api") {
            version {
               strictly("1.7.15")
            }
        }
    
        // or...
        implementation("org.slf4j:slf4j-api:[1.7, 1.8[!!1.7.25")
        // is equivalent to
        implementation("org.slf4j:slf4j-api") {
            version {
               strictly("[1.7, 1.8[")
               prefer("1.7.25")
            }
        }
    }

A strict version _cannot be upgraded_ and overrides whatever transitive
dependencies originating from this dependency provide. It is recommended to
use ranges for strict versions.

The notation `[1.7, 1.8[!!1.7.25` above is equivalent to:

  * strictly `[1.7, 1.8[`

  * prefer `1.7.25`

which means that the engine **must** select a version between 1.7 (included)
and 1.8 (excluded), and that if no other component in the graph needs a
different version, it should _prefer_ `1.7.25`.

## Declaring a dependency without version

A recommended practice for larger projects is to declare dependencies without
versions and use [dependency
constraints](dependency_constraints.html#sec:adding-constraints-transitive-
deps) for version declaration. The advantage is that dependency constraints
allow you to manage versions of all dependencies, including transitive ones,
in one place.

Example 3. Declaring a dependency without version

build.gradle

    
    
    dependencies {
        implementation 'org.springframework:spring-web'
    }
    
    dependencies {
        constraints {
            implementation 'org.springframework:spring-web:5.0.2.RELEASE'
        }
    }

build.gradle.kts

    
    
    dependencies {
        implementation("org.springframework:spring-web")
    }
    
    dependencies {
        constraints {
            implementation("org.springframework:spring-web:5.0.2.RELEASE")
        }
    }

**Docs**

  * [User Manual](/userguide/userguide.html)
  * [DSL Reference](/dsl/)
  * [Release Notes](/release-notes.html)
  * [Javadoc](/javadoc/)

**News**

  * [Blog](https://blog.gradle.org/)
  * [Newsletter](https://newsletter.gradle.com/)
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/gradle)
  * [Status Page](https://status.gradle.com/)

**Products**

  * [Build Scans](https://gradle.com/build-scans/)
  * [Build Cache](https://gradle.com/build-cache/)
  * [Enterprise Docs](https://gradle.com/enterprise/resources/)

**Get Help**

  * [Forums](https://discuss.gradle.org/c/help-discuss)
  * [GitHub](https://github.com/gradle/)
  * [Training](https://gradle.com/training/)
  * [Services](https://gradle.org/services/)

##### Stay `UP-TO-DATE` on new features and news

By entering your email, you agree to our
[Terms](https://gradle.com/legal/terms-of-service/) and [Privacy
Policy](https://gradle.com/legal/privacy/), including receipt of emails. You
can unsubscribe at any time.

Subscribe

© [Gradle Inc.](https://gradle.com) 2020 All rights reserved.

[ gradle ](/)

[Careers](https://gradle.com/careers/) |
[Privacy](https://gradle.com/legal/privacy/) | [Terms of
Service](https://gradle.com/legal/terms-of-service/) |
[Contact](https://gradle.org/contact/)

