

[ Gradle ](https://docs.gradle.org "Gradle Docs")

User Manual

  * Community Open Community Menu

[ Community Home ](https://gradle.org/)

[ Community Forums ](https://discuss.gradle.org/)

[ Community Plugins ](https://plugins.gradle.org)

  * [Training](https://gradle.com/training/)
  * News Open Community Menu

[ Newsletter ](https://newsletter.gradle.com)

[ Blog ](https://blog.gradle.org)

[ Twitter ](https://twitter.com/gradle)

  * [Enterprise](https://gradle.com)
  * [github](https://github.com/gradle/gradle "Gradle on GitHub")

  * [Docs Home](../userguide/userguide.html)
  * [Samples](../samples/index.html)
  * [Release Notes](../release-notes.html)
  * Gradle API
    * [Javadoc](../javadoc/index.html?overview-summary.html)
    * [Groovy DSL Reference](../dsl/index.html)
    * [Groovy DSL Primer](../userguide/groovy_build_script_primer.html)
    * [Kotlin DSL API](https://gradle.github.io/kotlin-dsl-docs/api/)
    * [Kotlin DSL Primer](../userguide/kotlin_dsl.html)

### User Manual

[ PDF ](../userguide/userguide.pdf)

  * [What is Gradle?](../userguide/what_is_gradle.html)
  * [Getting Started](../userguide/getting_started.html)
  * [Installing Gradle](../userguide/installation.html)
  * Upgrading Gradle...
    * [version 6.X to latest](../userguide/upgrading_version_6.html)
    * [version 5.X to 6.0](../userguide/upgrading_version_5.html)
    * [version 4.X to 5.0](../userguide/upgrading_version_4.html)
    * [Gradle's Feature Lifecycle](../userguide/feature_lifecycle.html)
  * Migrating to Gradle...
    * [from Maven](../userguide/migrating_from_maven.html)
    * [from Ant](../userguide/migrating_from_ant.html)
  * [Compatibility Notes](../userguide/compatibility.html)
  * [Troubleshooting Builds](../userguide/troubleshooting.html)

### Running Gradle Builds

  * Customizing Execution
    * [Configuring the Build Environment](../userguide/build_environment.html)
    * [Configuring the Gradle Daemon](../userguide/gradle_daemon.html)
    * [Using Initialization Scripts](../userguide/init_scripts.html)
  * [Executing Multi-Project Builds](../userguide/intro_multi_project_builds.html)
  * [Inspecting Gradle Builds](https://scans.gradle.com/)
  * Optimizing Build Times
    * [Build Performance Guide](https://guides.gradle.org/performance/)
    * [Enabling and Configuring the Build Cache](../userguide/build_cache.html)
    * [Using the Configuration Cache](../userguide/configuration_cache.html)

### Authoring Gradle Builds

  * Learning the Basics
    * [Introducing the Basics of Build Scripts](../userguide/tutorial_using_tasks.html)
    * [Working with Tasks](../userguide/more_about_tasks.html)
    * [Learning More About Build Scripts](../userguide/writing_build_scripts.html)
    * [Working with Files](../userguide/working_with_files.html)
    * [Using Gradle Plugins](../userguide/plugins.html)
    * [Understanding the Build Lifecycle](../userguide/build_lifecycle.html)
    * [Working with Logging](../userguide/logging.html)
    * [Avoiding Traps](../userguide/potential_traps.html)
  * Authoring Multi-Project Builds
    * [Creating a Basic Multi-Project Build](../userguide/multi_project_builds.html)
    * [Declaring Dependencies between Subprojects](../userguide/declaring_dependencies_between_subprojects.html)
    * [Sharing Build Logic between Subprojects](../userguide/sharing_build_logic_between_subprojects.html)
    * [Fine Tuning the Project Layout](../userguide/fine_tuning_project_layout.html)
    * [Understanding Configuration and Execution](../userguide/multi_project_configuration_and_execution.html)
  * Authoring Sustainable Builds
    * [Organizing Build Logic](../userguide/organizing_gradle_projects.html)
    * [Following Best Practices](../userguide/authoring_maintainable_build_scripts.html)
  * Advanced Techniques
    * [Developing Parallel Tasks](https://guides.gradle.org/using-the-worker-api/)
    * [Testing a Build with TestKit](../userguide/test_kit.html)
    * [Using Ant from Gradle](../userguide/ant.html)

### Authoring JVM Builds

  * [Building Java & JVM projects](../userguide/building_java_projects.html)
  * [Testing Java & JVM projects](../userguide/java_testing.html)
  * [Toolchains for Java projects](../userguide/toolchains.html)
  * [Managing Dependencies](../userguide/dependency_management_for_java_projects.html)
  * JVM Plugins
    * [Java Library Plugin](../userguide/java_library_plugin.html)
    * [Java Application Plugin](../userguide/application_plugin.html)
    * [Java Platform Plugin](../userguide/java_platform_plugin.html)
    * [Groovy Plugin](../userguide/groovy_plugin.html)
    * [Scala Plugin](../userguide/scala_plugin.html)

### Authoring C++/Swift Builds

  * [Building C++ projects](../userguide/building_cpp_projects.html)
  * [Testing C++ projects](../userguide/cpp_testing.html)
  * [Building Swift projects](../userguide/building_swift_projects.html)
  * [Testing Swift projects](../userguide/swift_testing.html)

### Working with Dependencies

  * Learning the Basics
    * [What is Dependency Management?](../userguide/core_dependency_management.html)
    * [Declaring Repositories](../userguide/declaring_repositories.html)
    * [Declaring Dependencies](../userguide/declaring_dependencies.html)
    * [Understanding Library and Application Differences](../userguide/library_vs_application.html)
    * [Viewing and Debugging Dependencies](../userguide/viewing_debugging_dependencies.html)
    * [Understanding Resolution](../userguide/dependency_resolution.html)
    * [Verifying dependencies](../userguide/dependency_verification.html)
  * Declaring Versions
    * [Declaring Versions and Ranges](../userguide/single_versions.html)
    * [Declaring Rich Versions](../userguide/rich_versions.html)
    * [Handling Changing Versions](../userguide/dynamic_versions.html)
    * [Locking Versions](../userguide/dependency_locking.html)
  * Controlling Transitives
    * [Upgrading Versions](../userguide/dependency_constraints.html)
    * [Downgrading and Excluding](../userguide/dependency_downgrade_and_exclude.html)
    * [Sharing Versions](../userguide/platforms.html)
    * [Aligning Dependencies](../userguide/dependency_version_alignment.html)
    * [Handling Mutually Exclusive Dependencies](../userguide/dependency_capability_conflict.html)
    * [Fixing Metadata](../userguide/component_metadata_rules.html)
    * [Customizing Resolution](../userguide/resolution_rules.html)
    * [Preventing accidental upgrades](../userguide/resolution_strategy_tuning.html)
  * Producing and Consuming Variants of Libraries
    * [Declaring Capabilities of a Library](../userguide/component_capabilities.html)
    * [Modeling Feature Variants and Optional Dependencies](../userguide/feature_variants.html)
    * [Understanding Variant Selection](../userguide/variant_model.html)
    * [Declaring Variant Attributes](../userguide/variant_attributes.html)
    * [Sharing Outputs of Projects](../userguide/cross_project_publications.html)
    * [Transforming Artifacts](../userguide/artifact_transforms.html)
  * Working in a Multi-repo Environment
    * [Composing Builds](../userguide/composite_builds.html)
  * Publishing Libraries
    * [Setting up Publishing](../userguide/publishing_setup.html)
    * [Understanding Gradle Module Metadata](../userguide/publishing_gradle_module_metadata.html)
    * [Signing Artifacts](../userguide/publishing_signing.html)
    * [Customizing Publishing](../userguide/publishing_customization.html)
    * [Maven Publish Plugin](../userguide/publishing_maven.html)
    * [Ivy Publish Plugin](../userguide/publishing_ivy.html)
  * [Terminology](../userguide/dependency_management_terminology.html)

### Extending Gradle

  * [Plugin Development Tutorials](https://gradle.org/guides/?q=Plugin%20Development)
  * [Writing Gradle Task Types](../userguide/custom_tasks.html)
  * [Writing Gradle Plugins](../userguide/custom_plugins.html)
  * [Writing Custom Gradle Types](../userguide/custom_gradle_types.html)
  * [Configuring Tasks Lazily](../userguide/lazy_configuration.html)
  * [Using Task Configuration Avoidance](../userguide/task_configuration_avoidance.html)

### Reference

  * [Core Plugins](../userguide/plugin_reference.html)
  * [Command-Line Interface](../userguide/command_line_interface.html)
  * [Gradle & Third-party Tools](../userguide/third_party_integration.html)
  * [The Gradle Wrapper](../userguide/gradle_wrapper.html)
  * [Gradle-managed Directories](../userguide/directory_layout.html)

# Troubleshooting builds

version 6.7.1

Contents

  * Troubleshooting Gradle installation
  * Debugging dependency resolution
  * Troubleshooting slow Gradle builds
  * Debugging build logic
  * Debugging IDE integration
  * Getting additional help

The following is a collection of common issues and suggestions for addressing
them. You can get other tips and search the [Gradle
forums](https://discuss.gradle.org/c/help-discuss) and [StackOverflow
#gradle](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/gradle) answers, as well
as Gradle documentation from [help.gradle.org](https://help.gradle.org/).

## Troubleshooting Gradle installation

If you followed the [installation
instructions](installation.html#installation), and aren’t able to execute your
Gradle build, here are some tips that may help.

If you installed Gradle outside of just invoking the [Gradle
Wrapper](gradle_wrapper.html#gradle_wrapper), you can check your Gradle
installation by running `gradle --version` in a terminal.

You should see something like this:

    
    
    ❯ gradle --version
    
    ------------------------------------------------------------
    Gradle 6.5
    ------------------------------------------------------------
    
    Build time:   2020-06-02 20:46:21 UTC
    Revision:     a27f41e4ae5e8a41ab9b19f8dd6d86d7b384dad4
    
    Kotlin:       1.3.72
    Groovy:       2.5.11
    Ant:          Apache Ant(TM) version 1.10.7 compiled on September 1 2019
    JVM:          14 (AdoptOpenJDK 14+36)
    OS:           Mac OS X 10.15.2 x86_64

If not, here are some things you might see instead.

### Command not found: gradle

If you get "command not found: gradle", you need to ensure that Gradle is
properly added to your `PATH`.

### JAVA_HOME is set to an invalid directory

If you get something like:

    
    
    ERROR: JAVA_HOME is set to an invalid directory
    
    Please set the JAVA_HOME variable in your environment to match the location of your Java installation.

You’ll need to ensure that a [Java Development Kit](https://jdk.java.net/)
version 8 or higher is [properly
installed](https://www.java.com/en/download/help/index_installing.xml), the
`JAVA_HOME` environment variable is set, and [Java is added to your
`PATH`](https://www.java.com/en/download/help/path.xml).

### Permission denied

If you get "permission denied", that means that Gradle likely exists in the
correct place, but it is not executable. You can fix this using `chmod +x
path/to/executable` on *nix-based systems.

### Other installation failures

If `gradle --version` works, but all of your builds fail with the same error,
it is possible there is a problem with one of your Gradle build configuration
scripts.

You can verify the problem is with Gradle scripts by running `gradle help`
which executes configuration scripts, but no Gradle tasks. If the error
persists, build configuration is problematic. If not, then the problem exists
within the execution of one or more of the requested tasks (Gradle executes
configuration scripts first, and then executes build steps).

## Debugging dependency resolution

Common dependency resolution issues such as resolving version conflicts are
covered in [Troubleshooting Dependency
Resolution](viewing_debugging_dependencies.html).

You can see a dependency tree and see which resolved dependency versions
differed from what was requested by clicking the _Dependencies_ view and using
the search functionality, specifying the resolution reason.

![troubleshooting dependency management build scan](img/troubleshooting-
dependency-management-build-scan.png)

Figure 1. Debugging dependency conflicts with build scans

The [actual build scan](https://scans.gradle.com/s/sample/troubleshooting-
userguide/dependencies?expandAll&filters=WzFd&toggled=W1swXSxbMF0sWzAsMF0sWzAsMV1d)
with filtering criteria is available for exploration.

## Troubleshooting slow Gradle builds

For build performance issues (including “slow sync time”), see the guide to
[Improving the Performance of Gradle
Builds](https://guides.gradle.org/performance/).

Android developers should watch a presentation by the Android SDK Tools team
about [Speeding Up Your Android Gradle Builds](https://youtu.be/7ll-rkLCtyk).
Many tips are also covered in the Android Studio user guide [on optimizing
build speed](https://developer.android.com/studio/build/optimize-your-
build.html).

## Debugging build logic

### Attaching a debugger to your build

You can set breakpoints and debug [buildSrc and standalone
plugins](custom_plugins.html#sec:packaging_a_plugin) in your Gradle build
itself by setting the `org.gradle.debug` property to “true” and then attaching
a remote debugger to port 5005.

    
    
    ❯ gradle help -Dorg.gradle.debug=true

In addition, if you’ve adopted the Kotlin DSL, you can also debug build
scripts themselves.

The following video demonstrates how to debug an example build using IntelliJ
IDEA.

![remote debug gradle](img/remote-debug-gradle.gif)

Figure 2. Interactive debugging of a build script

### Adding and changing logging

In addition to [controlling logging
verbosity](command_line_interface.html#sec:command_line_logging), you can also
control display of task outcomes (e.g. “UP-TO-DATE”) in lifecycle logging
using the [`--console=verbose`
flag](command_line_interface.html#sec:command_line_customizing_log_format).

You can also replace much of Gradle’s logging with your own by registering
various event listeners. One example of a [custom event logger is explained in
the logging documentation](logging.html#sec:changing_what_gradle_logs). You
can also [control logging from external
tools](logging.html#sec:external_tools), making them more verbose in order to
debug their execution.

__ |  Additional logs from the [Gradle
Daemon](gradle_daemon.html#gradle_daemon) can be found under
`GRADLE_USER_HOME/daemon/<gradle-version>/`.  
---|---  
  
### Task executed when it should have been UP-TO-DATE

`--info` logs explain why a task was executed, though build scans do this in a
searchable, visual way by going to the _Timeline_ view and clicking on the
task you want to inspect.

![troubleshooting task execution build scan](img/troubleshooting-task-
execution-build-scan.png)

Figure 3. Debugging incremental build with a build scan

You can learn what the task outcomes mean from [this
listing](more_about_tasks.html#sec:task_outcomes).

## Debugging IDE integration

Many infrequent errors within IDEs can be solved by "refreshing" Gradle. See
also more documentation on working with Gradle [in IntelliJ
IDEA](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/idea/gradle.html) and [in
Eclipse](http://www.vogella.com/tutorials/EclipseGradle/article.html).

### Refreshing IntelliJ IDEA

**NOTE:** This only works for Gradle projects [linked to
IntelliJ](https://www.jetbrains.com/help/idea/gradle.html#link_gradle_project).

From the main menu, go to `View` > `Tool Windows` > `Gradle`. Then click on
the _Refresh_ icon.

![troubleshooting refresh intellij](img/troubleshooting-refresh-intellij.png)

Figure 4. Refreshing a Gradle project in IntelliJ IDEA

### Refreshing Eclipse (using Buildship)

If you're using
[Buildship](https://projects.eclipse.org/projects/tools.buildship) for the
Eclipse IDE, you can re-synchronize your Gradle build by opening the "Gradle
Tasks" view and clicking the "Refresh" icon, or by executing the `Gradle` >
`Refresh Gradle Project` command from the context menu while editing a Gradle
script.

![troubleshooting refresh eclipse](img/troubleshooting-refresh-eclipse.png)

Figure 5. Refreshing a Gradle project in Eclipse Buildship

## Getting additional help

If you didn't find a fix for your issue here, please reach out to the Gradle
community on the [help forum](https://discuss.gradle.org/c/help-discuss) or
search relevant developer resources using
[help.gradle.org](https://help.gradle.org/).

If you believe you've found a bug in Gradle, please [file an
issue](https://github.com/gradle/gradle/issues) on GitHub.

**Docs**

  * [User Manual](/userguide/userguide.html)
  * [DSL Reference](/dsl/)
  * [Release Notes](/release-notes.html)
  * [Javadoc](/javadoc/)

**News**

  * [Blog](https://blog.gradle.org/)
  * [Newsletter](https://newsletter.gradle.com/)
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/gradle)
  * [Status Page](https://status.gradle.com/)

**Products**

  * [Build Scans](https://gradle.com/build-scans/)
  * [Build Cache](https://gradle.com/build-cache/)
  * [Enterprise Docs](https://gradle.com/enterprise/resources/)

**Get Help**

  * [Forums](https://discuss.gradle.org/c/help-discuss)
  * [GitHub](https://github.com/gradle/)
  * [Training](https://gradle.com/training/)
  * [Services](https://gradle.org/services/)

##### Stay `UP-TO-DATE` on new features and news

By entering your email, you agree to our
[Terms](https://gradle.com/legal/terms-of-service/) and [Privacy
Policy](https://gradle.com/legal/privacy/), including receipt of emails. You
can unsubscribe at any time.

Subscribe

© [Gradle Inc.](https://gradle.com) 2020 All rights reserved.

[ gradle ](/)

[Careers](https://gradle.com/careers/) |
[Privacy](https://gradle.com/legal/privacy/) | [Terms of
Service](https://gradle.com/legal/terms-of-service/) |
[Contact](https://gradle.org/contact/)

