

[ Gradle ](https://docs.gradle.org "Gradle Docs")

User Manual

  * Community Open Community Menu

[ Community Home ](https://gradle.org/)

[ Community Forums ](https://discuss.gradle.org/)

[ Community Plugins ](https://plugins.gradle.org)

  * [Training](https://gradle.com/training/)
  * News Open Community Menu

[ Newsletter ](https://newsletter.gradle.com)

[ Blog ](https://blog.gradle.org)

[ Twitter ](https://twitter.com/gradle)

  * [Enterprise](https://gradle.com)
  * [github](https://github.com/gradle/gradle "Gradle on GitHub")

  * [Docs Home](../userguide/userguide.html)
  * [Samples](../samples/index.html)
  * [Release Notes](../release-notes.html)
  * Gradle API
    * [Javadoc](../javadoc/index.html?overview-summary.html)
    * [Groovy DSL Reference](../dsl/index.html)
    * [Groovy DSL Primer](../userguide/groovy_build_script_primer.html)
    * [Kotlin DSL API](https://gradle.github.io/kotlin-dsl-docs/api/)
    * [Kotlin DSL Primer](../userguide/kotlin_dsl.html)

### User Manual

[ PDF ](../userguide/userguide.pdf)

  * [What is Gradle?](../userguide/what_is_gradle.html)
  * [Getting Started](../userguide/getting_started.html)
  * [Installing Gradle](../userguide/installation.html)
  * Upgrading Gradle...
    * [version 6.X to latest](../userguide/upgrading_version_6.html)
    * [version 5.X to 6.0](../userguide/upgrading_version_5.html)
    * [version 4.X to 5.0](../userguide/upgrading_version_4.html)
    * [Gradle's Feature Lifecycle](../userguide/feature_lifecycle.html)
  * Migrating to Gradle...
    * [from Maven](../userguide/migrating_from_maven.html)
    * [from Ant](../userguide/migrating_from_ant.html)
  * [Compatibility Notes](../userguide/compatibility.html)
  * [Troubleshooting Builds](../userguide/troubleshooting.html)

### Running Gradle Builds

  * Customizing Execution
    * [Configuring the Build Environment](../userguide/build_environment.html)
    * [Configuring the Gradle Daemon](../userguide/gradle_daemon.html)
    * [Using Initialization Scripts](../userguide/init_scripts.html)
  * [Executing Multi-Project Builds](../userguide/intro_multi_project_builds.html)
  * [Inspecting Gradle Builds](https://scans.gradle.com/)
  * Optimizing Build Times
    * [Build Performance Guide](https://guides.gradle.org/performance/)
    * [Enabling and Configuring the Build Cache](../userguide/build_cache.html)
    * [Using the Configuration Cache](../userguide/configuration_cache.html)

### Authoring Gradle Builds

  * Learning the Basics
    * [Introducing the Basics of Build Scripts](../userguide/tutorial_using_tasks.html)
    * [Working with Tasks](../userguide/more_about_tasks.html)
    * [Learning More About Build Scripts](../userguide/writing_build_scripts.html)
    * [Working with Files](../userguide/working_with_files.html)
    * [Using Gradle Plugins](../userguide/plugins.html)
    * [Understanding the Build Lifecycle](../userguide/build_lifecycle.html)
    * [Working with Logging](../userguide/logging.html)
    * [Avoiding Traps](../userguide/potential_traps.html)
  * Authoring Multi-Project Builds
    * [Creating a Basic Multi-Project Build](../userguide/multi_project_builds.html)
    * [Declaring Dependencies between Subprojects](../userguide/declaring_dependencies_between_subprojects.html)
    * [Sharing Build Logic between Subprojects](../userguide/sharing_build_logic_between_subprojects.html)
    * [Fine Tuning the Project Layout](../userguide/fine_tuning_project_layout.html)
    * [Understanding Configuration and Execution](../userguide/multi_project_configuration_and_execution.html)
  * Authoring Sustainable Builds
    * [Organizing Build Logic](../userguide/organizing_gradle_projects.html)
    * [Following Best Practices](../userguide/authoring_maintainable_build_scripts.html)
  * Advanced Techniques
    * [Developing Parallel Tasks](https://guides.gradle.org/using-the-worker-api/)
    * [Testing a Build with TestKit](../userguide/test_kit.html)
    * [Using Ant from Gradle](../userguide/ant.html)

### Authoring JVM Builds

  * [Building Java & JVM projects](../userguide/building_java_projects.html)
  * [Testing Java & JVM projects](../userguide/java_testing.html)
  * [Toolchains for Java projects](../userguide/toolchains.html)
  * [Managing Dependencies](../userguide/dependency_management_for_java_projects.html)
  * JVM Plugins
    * [Java Library Plugin](../userguide/java_library_plugin.html)
    * [Java Application Plugin](../userguide/application_plugin.html)
    * [Java Platform Plugin](../userguide/java_platform_plugin.html)
    * [Groovy Plugin](../userguide/groovy_plugin.html)
    * [Scala Plugin](../userguide/scala_plugin.html)

### Authoring C++/Swift Builds

  * [Building C++ projects](../userguide/building_cpp_projects.html)
  * [Testing C++ projects](../userguide/cpp_testing.html)
  * [Building Swift projects](../userguide/building_swift_projects.html)
  * [Testing Swift projects](../userguide/swift_testing.html)

### Working with Dependencies

  * Learning the Basics
    * [What is Dependency Management?](../userguide/core_dependency_management.html)
    * [Declaring Repositories](../userguide/declaring_repositories.html)
    * [Declaring Dependencies](../userguide/declaring_dependencies.html)
    * [Understanding Library and Application Differences](../userguide/library_vs_application.html)
    * [Viewing and Debugging Dependencies](../userguide/viewing_debugging_dependencies.html)
    * [Understanding Resolution](../userguide/dependency_resolution.html)
    * [Verifying dependencies](../userguide/dependency_verification.html)
  * Declaring Versions
    * [Declaring Versions and Ranges](../userguide/single_versions.html)
    * [Declaring Rich Versions](../userguide/rich_versions.html)
    * [Handling Changing Versions](../userguide/dynamic_versions.html)
    * [Locking Versions](../userguide/dependency_locking.html)
  * Controlling Transitives
    * [Upgrading Versions](../userguide/dependency_constraints.html)
    * [Downgrading and Excluding](../userguide/dependency_downgrade_and_exclude.html)
    * [Sharing Versions](../userguide/platforms.html)
    * [Aligning Dependencies](../userguide/dependency_version_alignment.html)
    * [Handling Mutually Exclusive Dependencies](../userguide/dependency_capability_conflict.html)
    * [Fixing Metadata](../userguide/component_metadata_rules.html)
    * [Customizing Resolution](../userguide/resolution_rules.html)
    * [Preventing accidental upgrades](../userguide/resolution_strategy_tuning.html)
  * Producing and Consuming Variants of Libraries
    * [Declaring Capabilities of a Library](../userguide/component_capabilities.html)
    * [Modeling Feature Variants and Optional Dependencies](../userguide/feature_variants.html)
    * [Understanding Variant Selection](../userguide/variant_model.html)
    * [Declaring Variant Attributes](../userguide/variant_attributes.html)
    * [Sharing Outputs of Projects](../userguide/cross_project_publications.html)
    * [Transforming Artifacts](../userguide/artifact_transforms.html)
  * Working in a Multi-repo Environment
    * [Composing Builds](../userguide/composite_builds.html)
  * Publishing Libraries
    * [Setting up Publishing](../userguide/publishing_setup.html)
    * [Understanding Gradle Module Metadata](../userguide/publishing_gradle_module_metadata.html)
    * [Signing Artifacts](../userguide/publishing_signing.html)
    * [Customizing Publishing](../userguide/publishing_customization.html)
    * [Maven Publish Plugin](../userguide/publishing_maven.html)
    * [Ivy Publish Plugin](../userguide/publishing_ivy.html)
  * [Terminology](../userguide/dependency_management_terminology.html)

### Extending Gradle

  * [Plugin Development Tutorials](https://gradle.org/guides/?q=Plugin%20Development)
  * [Writing Gradle Task Types](../userguide/custom_tasks.html)
  * [Writing Gradle Plugins](../userguide/custom_plugins.html)
  * [Writing Custom Gradle Types](../userguide/custom_gradle_types.html)
  * [Configuring Tasks Lazily](../userguide/lazy_configuration.html)
  * [Using Task Configuration Avoidance](../userguide/task_configuration_avoidance.html)

### Reference

  * [Core Plugins](../userguide/plugin_reference.html)
  * [Command-Line Interface](../userguide/command_line_interface.html)
  * [Gradle & Third-party Tools](../userguide/third_party_integration.html)
  * [The Gradle Wrapper](../userguide/gradle_wrapper.html)
  * [Gradle-managed Directories](../userguide/directory_layout.html)

# Build Environment

version 6.7.1

Contents

  * Gradle properties
  * System properties
  * Environment variables
  * Project properties
  * Configuring JVM memory
  * Configuring a task using project properties
  * Accessing the web through a HTTP proxy

__ |  Interested in configuring your Build Cache to speed up builds? [Register
here](https://gradle.com/training/build-cache-deep-dive/?bid=docs-build-
environment) for our Build Cache training session to learn some of the tips
and tricks top engineering teams are using to increase build speed.  
---|---  
  
Gradle provides multiple mechanisms for configuring behavior of Gradle itself
and specific projects. The following is a reference for using these
mechanisms.

When configuring Gradle behavior you can use these methods, listed in order of
highest to lowest precedence (first one wins):

  * [Command-line flags](command_line_interface.html#command_line_interface) such as `--build-cache`. These have precedence over properties and environment variables.

  * System properties such as `systemProp.http.proxyHost=somehost.org` stored in a `gradle.properties` file.

  * Gradle properties such as `org.gradle.caching=true` that are typically stored in a `gradle.properties` file in a project root directory or `GRADLE_USER_HOME` environment variable.

  * Environment variables such as `GRADLE_OPTS` sourced by the environment that executes Gradle.

Aside from configuring the build environment, you can configure a given
project build using Project properties such as `-PreleaseType=final`.

## Gradle properties

Gradle provides several options that make it easy to configure the Java
process that will be used to execute your build. While it's possible to
configure these in your local environment via `GRADLE_OPTS` or `JAVA_OPTS`, it
is useful to store certain settings like JVM memory configuration and Java
home location in version control so that an entire team can work with a
consistent environment.

Setting up a consistent environment for your build is as simple as placing
these settings into a `gradle.properties` file. The configuration is a
combination of all your `gradle.properties` files, but if an option is
configured in multiple locations, the _first one wins_ :

  * system properties, e.g. when `-Dgradle.user.home` is set on the command line.

  * `gradle.properties` in `GRADLE_USER_HOME` directory.

  * `gradle.properties` in project root directory.

  * `gradle.properties` in Gradle installation directory.

The following properties can be used to configure the Gradle build
environment:

`org.gradle.caching=(true,false)`

    

When set to true, Gradle will reuse task outputs from any previous build, when
possible, resulting is much faster builds. Learn more about [using the build
cache](build_cache.html#build_cache).

`org.gradle.caching.debug=(true,false)`

    

When set to true, individual input property hashes and the build cache key for
each task are logged on the console. Learn more about [task output
caching](build_cache.html#sec:task_output_caching).

`org.gradle.configureondemand=(true,false)`

    

Enables incubating [configuration on
demand](multi_project_configuration_and_execution.html#sec:configuration_on_demand),
where Gradle will attempt to configure only necessary projects.

`org.gradle.console=(auto,plain,rich,verbose)`

    

Customize console output coloring or verbosity. Default depends on how Gradle
is invoked. See [command-line
logging](command_line_interface.html#sec:command_line_logging) for additional
details.

`org.gradle.daemon=(true,false)`

    

When set to `true` the [Gradle Daemon](gradle_daemon.html#gradle_daemon) is
used to run the build. Default is `true`.

`org.gradle.daemon.idletimeout=(# of idle millis)`

    

Gradle Daemon will terminate itself after specified number of idle
milliseconds. Default is `10800000` (3 hours).

`org.gradle.debug=(true,false)`

    

When set to `true`, Gradle will run the build with remote debugging enabled,
listening on port 5005. Note that this is the equivalent of adding
`-agentlib:jdwp=transport=dt_socket,server=y,suspend=y,address=5005` to the
JVM command line and will suspend the virtual machine until a debugger is
attached. Default is `false`.

`org.gradle.java.home=(path to JDK home)`

    

Specifies the Java home for the Gradle build process. The value can be set to
either a `jdk` or `jre` location, however, depending on what your build does,
using a JDK is safer. A reasonable default is derived from your environment
(`JAVA_HOME` or the path to `java`) if the setting is unspecified. This does
not affect the version of Java used to launch the Gradle client VM (see
Environment variables).

`org.gradle.jvmargs=(JVM arguments)`

    

Specifies the JVM arguments used for the Gradle Daemon. The setting is
particularly useful for configuring JVM memory settings for build performance.
This does not affect the JVM settings for the Gradle client VM.

`org.gradle.logging.level=(quiet,warn,lifecycle,info,debug)`

    

When set to quiet, warn, lifecycle, info, or debug, Gradle will use this log
level. The values are not case sensitive. The `lifecycle` level is the
default. See [Choosing a log level](logging.html#sec:choosing_a_log_level).

`org.gradle.parallel=(true,false)`

    

When configured, Gradle will fork up to `org.gradle.workers.max` JVMs to
execute projects in parallel. To learn more about parallel task execution, see
[the Gradle performance
guide](https://guides.gradle.org/performance/#parallel_execution).

`org.gradle.priority=(low,normal)`

    

Specifies the scheduling priority for the Gradle daemon and all processes
launched by it. Default is `normal`. See also [performance command-line
options](command_line_interface.html#sec:command_line_performance).

`org.gradle.vfs.verbose=(true,false)`

    

Configures verbose logging when [watching the file
system](gradle_daemon.html#sec:daemon_watch_fs). _Default is off_.

`org.gradle.vfs.watch=(true,false)`

    

Toggles [watching the file system](gradle_daemon.html#sec:daemon_watch_fs).
Allows Gradle to re-use information about the file system in the next build.
_Default is off_.

`org.gradle.warning.mode=(all,fail,summary,none)`

    

When set to `all`, `summary` or `none`, Gradle will use different warning type
display. See [Command-line logging
options](command_line_interface.html#sec:command_line_logging) for details.

`org.gradle.workers.max=(max # of worker processes)`

    

When configured, Gradle will use a maximum of the given number of workers.
Default is number of CPU processors. See also [performance command-line
options](command_line_interface.html#sec:command_line_performance).

The following example demonstrates usage of various properties.

Example 1. Setting properties with a gradle.properties file

gradle.properties

    
    
    gradlePropertiesProp=gradlePropertiesValue
    sysProp=shouldBeOverWrittenBySysProp
    systemProp.system=systemValue

build.gradle

    
    
    task printProps {
        doLast {
            println commandLineProjectProp
            println gradlePropertiesProp
            println systemProjectProp
            println System.properties['system']
        }
    }

build.gradle.kts

    
    
    // Project properties can be accessed via delegation
    val commandLineProjectProp: String by project
    val gradlePropertiesProp: String by project
    val systemProjectProp: String by project
    
    tasks.register("printProps") {
        doLast {
            println(commandLineProjectProp)
            println(gradlePropertiesProp)
            println(systemProjectProp)
            println(System.getProperty("system"))
        }
    }
    
    
    $ gradle -q -PcommandLineProjectProp=commandLineProjectPropValue -Dorg.gradle.project.systemProjectProp=systemPropertyValue printProps
    commandLineProjectPropValue
    gradlePropertiesValue
    systemPropertyValue
    systemValue

## System properties

Using the `-D` command-line option, you can pass a system property to the JVM
which runs Gradle. The `-D` option of the `gradle` command has the same effect
as the `-D` option of the `java` command.

You can also set system properties in `gradle.properties` files with the
prefix `systemProp.`

Specifying system properties in `gradle.properties`

    
    
    systemProp.gradle.wrapperUser=myuser
    systemProp.gradle.wrapperPassword=mypassword

The following system properties are available. Note that command-line options
take precedence over system properties.

`gradle.wrapperUser=(myuser)`

    

Specify user name to download Gradle distributions from servers using HTTP
Basic Authentication. Learn more in [Authenticated wrapper
downloads](gradle_wrapper.html#sec:authenticated_download).

`gradle.wrapperPassword=(mypassword)`

    

Specify password for downloading a Gradle distribution using the Gradle
wrapper.

`gradle.user.home=(path to directory)`

    

Specify the Gradle user home directory.

In a multi project build, “`systemProp.`” properties set in any project except
the root will be ignored. That is, only the root project's `gradle.properties`
file will be checked for properties that begin with the “`systemProp.`”
prefix.

## Environment variables

The following environment variables are available for the `gradle` command.
Note that command-line options and system properties take precedence over
environment variables.

`GRADLE_OPTS`

    

Specifies JVM arguments to use when starting the Gradle client VM. The client
VM only handles command line input/output, so it is rare that one would need
to change its VM options. The actual build is run by the Gradle daemon, which
is not affected by this environment variable.

`GRADLE_USER_HOME`

    

Specifies the Gradle user home directory (which defaults to
`$USER_HOME/.gradle` if not set).

`JAVA_HOME`

    

Specifies the JDK installation directory to use for the client VM. This VM is
also used for the daemon, unless a different one is specified in a Gradle
properties file with `org.gradle.java.home`.

## Project properties

You can add properties directly to your
[Project](../dsl/org.gradle.api.Project.html) object via the `-P` command line
option.

Gradle can also set project properties when it sees specially-named system
properties or environment variables. If the environment variable name looks
like `ORG_GRADLE_PROJECT __prop_ =somevalue`, then Gradle will set a `prop`
property on your project object, with the value of `somevalue`. Gradle also
supports this for system properties, but with a different naming pattern,
which looks like `org.gradle.project. _prop_`. Both of the following will set
the `foo` property on your Project object to `"bar"`.

Setting a project property via a system property

    
    
    org.gradle.project.foo=bar

Setting a project property via an environment variable

    
    
    ORG_GRADLE_PROJECT_foo=bar

__ |

The properties file in the user's home directory has precedence over property
files in the project directories.  
  
---|---  
  
This feature is very useful when you don't have admin rights to a continuous
integration server and you need to set property values that should not be
easily visible. Since you cannot use the `-P` option in that scenario, nor
change the system-level configuration files, the correct strategy is to change
the configuration of your continuous integration build job, adding an
environment variable setting that matches an expected pattern. This won't be
visible to normal users on the system.

You can access a project property in your build script simply by using its
name as you would use a variable.

__ |

If a project property is referenced but does not exist, an exception will be
thrown and the build will fail.

You should check for existence of optional project properties before you
access them using the
[Project.hasProperty(java.lang.String)](../dsl/org.gradle.api.Project.html#org.gradle.api.Project:hasProperty\(java.lang.String\))
method.  
  
---|---  
  
## Configuring JVM memory

You can adjust JVM options for Gradle in the following ways:

The `org.gradle.jvmargs` Gradle property controls the VM running the build. It
defaults to `-Xmx512m "-XX:MaxMetaspaceSize=256m"`

Changing JVM settings for the build VM

    
    
    org.gradle.jvmargs=-Xmx2g -XX:MaxMetaspaceSize=512m -XX:+HeapDumpOnOutOfMemoryError -Dfile.encoding=UTF-8

The `JAVA_OPTS` environment variable controls the command line client, which
is only used to display console output. It defaults to `-Xmx64m`

Changing JVM settings for the client VM

    
    
    JAVA_OPTS="-Xmx64m -XX:MaxPermSize=64m -XX:+HeapDumpOnOutOfMemoryError -Dfile.encoding=UTF-8"

__ |

There is one case where the client VM can also serve as the build VM: If you
deactivate the [Gradle Daemon](gradle_daemon.html#gradle_daemon) and the
client VM has the same settings as required for the build VM, the client VM
will run the build directly. Otherwise the client VM will fork a new VM to run
the actual build in order to honor the different settings.  
  
---|---  
  
Certain tasks, like the `test` task, also fork additional JVM processes. You
can configure these through the tasks themselves. They all use `-Xmx512m` by
default.

Example 2. Set Java compile options for
[JavaCompile](../dsl/org.gradle.api.tasks.compile.JavaCompile.html) tasks

build.gradle

    
    
    plugins {
        id 'java'
    }
    
    tasks.withType(JavaCompile) {
        options.compilerArgs += ['-Xdoclint:none', '-Xlint:none', '-nowarn']
    }

build.gradle.kts

    
    
    plugins {
        java
    }
    
    tasks.withType<JavaCompile>().configureEach {
        options.compilerArgs = listOf("-Xdoclint:none", "-Xlint:none", "-nowarn")
    }

See other examples in the
[Test](../dsl/org.gradle.api.tasks.testing.Test.html) API documentation and
[test execution in the Java plugin
reference](java_testing.html#sec:test_execution).

[Build scans](https://scans.gradle.com) will tell you information about the
JVM that executed the build when you use the `--scan` option.

[![Build Environment in build scan](img/build-scan-
infrastructure.png)](https://scans.gradle.com/s/sample/cpp-
parallel/infrastructure)

## Configuring a task using project properties

It's possible to change the behavior of a task based on project properties
specified at invocation time.

Suppose you'd like to ensure release builds are only triggered by CI. A simple
way to handle this is through an `isCI` project property.

Example 3. Prevent releasing outside of CI

build.gradle

    
    
    task performRelease {
        doLast {
            if (project.hasProperty("isCI")) {
                println("Performing release actions")
            } else {
                throw new InvalidUserDataException("Cannot perform release outside of CI")
            }
        }
    }

build.gradle.kts

    
    
    tasks.register("performRelease") {
        doLast {
            if (project.hasProperty("isCI")) {
                println("Performing release actions")
            } else {
                throw InvalidUserDataException("Cannot perform release outside of CI")
            }
        }
    }
    
    
    $ gradle performRelease -PisCI=true --quiet
    Performing release actions

## Accessing the web through a HTTP proxy

Configuring an HTTP or HTTPS proxy (for downloading dependencies, for example)
is done via standard JVM system properties. These properties can be set
directly in the build script; for example, setting the HTTP proxy host would
be done with `System.setProperty('http.proxyHost', 'www.somehost.org')`.
Alternatively, the properties can be specified in gradle.properties.

Configuring an HTTP proxy using `gradle.properties`

    
    
    systemProp.http.proxyHost=www.somehost.org
    systemProp.http.proxyPort=8080
    systemProp.http.proxyUser=userid
    systemProp.http.proxyPassword=password
    systemProp.http.nonProxyHosts=*.nonproxyrepos.com|localhost

There are separate settings for HTTPS.

Configuring an HTTPS proxy using `gradle.properties`

    
    
    systemProp.https.proxyHost=www.somehost.org
    systemProp.https.proxyPort=8080
    systemProp.https.proxyUser=userid
    systemProp.https.proxyPassword=password
    systemProp.http.nonProxyHosts=*.nonproxyrepos.com|localhost

You may need to set other properties to access other networks. Here are 2
references that may be helpful:

  * [ProxySetup.java in the Ant codebase](https://git-wip-us.apache.org/repos/asf?p=ant.git;a=blob;f=src/main/org/apache/tools/ant/util/ProxySetup.java;hb=HEAD)

  * [JDK 7 Networking Properties](http://download.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/technotes/guides/net/properties.html)

### NTLM Authentication

If your proxy requires NTLM authentication, you may need to provide the
authentication domain as well as the username and password. There are 2 ways
that you can provide the domain for authenticating to a NTLM proxy:

  * Set the `http.proxyUser` system property to a value like `_domain_ / _username_`.

  * Provide the authentication domain via the `http.auth.ntlm.domain` system property.

**Docs**

  * [User Manual](/userguide/userguide.html)
  * [DSL Reference](/dsl/)
  * [Release Notes](/release-notes.html)
  * [Javadoc](/javadoc/)

**News**

  * [Blog](https://blog.gradle.org/)
  * [Newsletter](https://newsletter.gradle.com/)
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/gradle)
  * [Status Page](https://status.gradle.com/)

**Products**

  * [Build Scans](https://gradle.com/build-scans/)
  * [Build Cache](https://gradle.com/build-cache/)
  * [Enterprise Docs](https://gradle.com/enterprise/resources/)

**Get Help**

  * [Forums](https://discuss.gradle.org/c/help-discuss)
  * [GitHub](https://github.com/gradle/)
  * [Training](https://gradle.com/training/)
  * [Services](https://gradle.org/services/)

##### Stay `UP-TO-DATE` on new features and news

By entering your email, you agree to our
[Terms](https://gradle.com/legal/terms-of-service/) and [Privacy
Policy](https://gradle.com/legal/privacy/), including receipt of emails. You
can unsubscribe at any time.

Subscribe

© [Gradle Inc.](https://gradle.com) 2020 All rights reserved.

[ gradle ](/)

[Careers](https://gradle.com/careers/) |
[Privacy](https://gradle.com/legal/privacy/) | [Terms of
Service](https://gradle.com/legal/terms-of-service/) |
[Contact](https://gradle.org/contact/)

