

[ Gradle ](https://docs.gradle.org "Gradle Docs")

User Manual

  * Community Open Community Menu

[ Community Home ](https://gradle.org/)

[ Community Forums ](https://discuss.gradle.org/)

[ Community Plugins ](https://plugins.gradle.org)

  * [Training](https://gradle.com/training/)
  * News Open Community Menu

[ Newsletter ](https://newsletter.gradle.com)

[ Blog ](https://blog.gradle.org)

[ Twitter ](https://twitter.com/gradle)

  * [Enterprise](https://gradle.com)
  * [github](https://github.com/gradle/gradle "Gradle on GitHub")

  * [Docs Home](../userguide/userguide.html)
  * [Samples](../samples/index.html)
  * [Release Notes](../release-notes.html)
  * Gradle API
    * [Javadoc](../javadoc/index.html?overview-summary.html)
    * [Groovy DSL Reference](../dsl/index.html)
    * [Groovy DSL Primer](../userguide/groovy_build_script_primer.html)
    * [Kotlin DSL API](https://gradle.github.io/kotlin-dsl-docs/api/)
    * [Kotlin DSL Primer](../userguide/kotlin_dsl.html)

### User Manual

[ PDF ](../userguide/userguide.pdf)

  * [What is Gradle?](../userguide/what_is_gradle.html)
  * [Getting Started](../userguide/getting_started.html)
  * [Installing Gradle](../userguide/installation.html)
  * Upgrading Gradle...
    * [version 6.X to latest](../userguide/upgrading_version_6.html)
    * [version 5.X to 6.0](../userguide/upgrading_version_5.html)
    * [version 4.X to 5.0](../userguide/upgrading_version_4.html)
    * [Gradle's Feature Lifecycle](../userguide/feature_lifecycle.html)
  * Migrating to Gradle...
    * [from Maven](../userguide/migrating_from_maven.html)
    * [from Ant](../userguide/migrating_from_ant.html)
  * [Compatibility Notes](../userguide/compatibility.html)
  * [Troubleshooting Builds](../userguide/troubleshooting.html)

### Running Gradle Builds

  * Customizing Execution
    * [Configuring the Build Environment](../userguide/build_environment.html)
    * [Configuring the Gradle Daemon](../userguide/gradle_daemon.html)
    * [Using Initialization Scripts](../userguide/init_scripts.html)
  * [Executing Multi-Project Builds](../userguide/intro_multi_project_builds.html)
  * [Inspecting Gradle Builds](https://scans.gradle.com/)
  * Optimizing Build Times
    * [Build Performance Guide](https://guides.gradle.org/performance/)
    * [Enabling and Configuring the Build Cache](../userguide/build_cache.html)
    * [Using the Configuration Cache](../userguide/configuration_cache.html)

### Authoring Gradle Builds

  * Learning the Basics
    * [Introducing the Basics of Build Scripts](../userguide/tutorial_using_tasks.html)
    * [Working with Tasks](../userguide/more_about_tasks.html)
    * [Learning More About Build Scripts](../userguide/writing_build_scripts.html)
    * [Working with Files](../userguide/working_with_files.html)
    * [Using Gradle Plugins](../userguide/plugins.html)
    * [Understanding the Build Lifecycle](../userguide/build_lifecycle.html)
    * [Working with Logging](../userguide/logging.html)
    * [Avoiding Traps](../userguide/potential_traps.html)
  * Authoring Multi-Project Builds
    * [Creating a Basic Multi-Project Build](../userguide/multi_project_builds.html)
    * [Declaring Dependencies between Subprojects](../userguide/declaring_dependencies_between_subprojects.html)
    * [Sharing Build Logic between Subprojects](../userguide/sharing_build_logic_between_subprojects.html)
    * [Fine Tuning the Project Layout](../userguide/fine_tuning_project_layout.html)
    * [Understanding Configuration and Execution](../userguide/multi_project_configuration_and_execution.html)
  * Authoring Sustainable Builds
    * [Organizing Build Logic](../userguide/organizing_gradle_projects.html)
    * [Following Best Practices](../userguide/authoring_maintainable_build_scripts.html)
  * Advanced Techniques
    * [Developing Parallel Tasks](https://guides.gradle.org/using-the-worker-api/)
    * [Testing a Build with TestKit](../userguide/test_kit.html)
    * [Using Ant from Gradle](../userguide/ant.html)

### Authoring JVM Builds

  * [Building Java & JVM projects](../userguide/building_java_projects.html)
  * [Testing Java & JVM projects](../userguide/java_testing.html)
  * [Toolchains for Java projects](../userguide/toolchains.html)
  * [Managing Dependencies](../userguide/dependency_management_for_java_projects.html)
  * JVM Plugins
    * [Java Library Plugin](../userguide/java_library_plugin.html)
    * [Java Application Plugin](../userguide/application_plugin.html)
    * [Java Platform Plugin](../userguide/java_platform_plugin.html)
    * [Groovy Plugin](../userguide/groovy_plugin.html)
    * [Scala Plugin](../userguide/scala_plugin.html)

### Authoring C++/Swift Builds

  * [Building C++ projects](../userguide/building_cpp_projects.html)
  * [Testing C++ projects](../userguide/cpp_testing.html)
  * [Building Swift projects](../userguide/building_swift_projects.html)
  * [Testing Swift projects](../userguide/swift_testing.html)

### Working with Dependencies

  * Learning the Basics
    * [What is Dependency Management?](../userguide/core_dependency_management.html)
    * [Declaring Repositories](../userguide/declaring_repositories.html)
    * [Declaring Dependencies](../userguide/declaring_dependencies.html)
    * [Understanding Library and Application Differences](../userguide/library_vs_application.html)
    * [Viewing and Debugging Dependencies](../userguide/viewing_debugging_dependencies.html)
    * [Understanding Resolution](../userguide/dependency_resolution.html)
    * [Verifying dependencies](../userguide/dependency_verification.html)
  * Declaring Versions
    * [Declaring Versions and Ranges](../userguide/single_versions.html)
    * [Declaring Rich Versions](../userguide/rich_versions.html)
    * [Handling Changing Versions](../userguide/dynamic_versions.html)
    * [Locking Versions](../userguide/dependency_locking.html)
  * Controlling Transitives
    * [Upgrading Versions](../userguide/dependency_constraints.html)
    * [Downgrading and Excluding](../userguide/dependency_downgrade_and_exclude.html)
    * [Sharing Versions](../userguide/platforms.html)
    * [Aligning Dependencies](../userguide/dependency_version_alignment.html)
    * [Handling Mutually Exclusive Dependencies](../userguide/dependency_capability_conflict.html)
    * [Fixing Metadata](../userguide/component_metadata_rules.html)
    * [Customizing Resolution](../userguide/resolution_rules.html)
    * [Preventing accidental upgrades](../userguide/resolution_strategy_tuning.html)
  * Producing and Consuming Variants of Libraries
    * [Declaring Capabilities of a Library](../userguide/component_capabilities.html)
    * [Modeling Feature Variants and Optional Dependencies](../userguide/feature_variants.html)
    * [Understanding Variant Selection](../userguide/variant_model.html)
    * [Declaring Variant Attributes](../userguide/variant_attributes.html)
    * [Sharing Outputs of Projects](../userguide/cross_project_publications.html)
    * [Transforming Artifacts](../userguide/artifact_transforms.html)
  * Working in a Multi-repo Environment
    * [Composing Builds](../userguide/composite_builds.html)
  * Publishing Libraries
    * [Setting up Publishing](../userguide/publishing_setup.html)
    * [Understanding Gradle Module Metadata](../userguide/publishing_gradle_module_metadata.html)
    * [Signing Artifacts](../userguide/publishing_signing.html)
    * [Customizing Publishing](../userguide/publishing_customization.html)
    * [Maven Publish Plugin](../userguide/publishing_maven.html)
    * [Ivy Publish Plugin](../userguide/publishing_ivy.html)
  * [Terminology](../userguide/dependency_management_terminology.html)

### Extending Gradle

  * [Plugin Development Tutorials](https://gradle.org/guides/?q=Plugin%20Development)
  * [Writing Gradle Task Types](../userguide/custom_tasks.html)
  * [Writing Gradle Plugins](../userguide/custom_plugins.html)
  * [Writing Custom Gradle Types](../userguide/custom_gradle_types.html)
  * [Configuring Tasks Lazily](../userguide/lazy_configuration.html)
  * [Using Task Configuration Avoidance](../userguide/task_configuration_avoidance.html)

### Reference

  * [Core Plugins](../userguide/plugin_reference.html)
  * [Command-Line Interface](../userguide/command_line_interface.html)
  * [Gradle & Third-party Tools](../userguide/third_party_integration.html)
  * [The Gradle Wrapper](../userguide/gradle_wrapper.html)
  * [Gradle-managed Directories](../userguide/directory_layout.html)

# The Gradle Wrapper

version 6.7.1

Contents

  * Adding the Gradle Wrapper
  * Using the Gradle Wrapper
  * Upgrading the Gradle Wrapper
  * Customizing the Gradle Wrapper
  * Verifying the integrity of the Gradle Wrapper JAR

The recommended way to execute any Gradle build is with the help of the Gradle
Wrapper (in short just “Wrapper”). The Wrapper is a script that invokes a
declared version of Gradle, downloading it beforehand if necessary. As a
result, developers can get up and running with a Gradle project quickly
without having to follow manual installation processes saving your company
time and money.

![wrapper workflow](img/wrapper-workflow.png)

Figure 1. The Wrapper workflow

**In a nutshell you gain the following benefits:**

  * Standardizes a project on a given Gradle version, leading to more reliable and robust builds.

  * Provisioning a new Gradle version to different users and execution environment (e.g. IDEs or Continuous Integration servers) is as simple as changing the Wrapper definition.

**So how does it work? For a user there are typically three different
workflows:**

  * You set up a new Gradle project and want to add the Wrapper to it.

  * You want to run a project with the Wrapper that already provides it.

  * You want to upgrade the Wrapper to a new version of Gradle.

The following sections explain each of these use cases in more detail.

## Adding the Gradle Wrapper

Generating the Wrapper files requires an installed version of the Gradle
runtime on your machine as described in
[Installation](installation.html#installation). Thankfully, generating the
initial Wrapper files is a one-time process.

Every vanilla Gradle build comes with a built-in task called `wrapper`. You’ll
be able to find the task listed under the group "Build Setup tasks" when
[listing the tasks](command_line_interface.html#sec:listing_tasks). Executing
the `wrapper` task generates the necessary Wrapper files in the project
directory.

Running the Wrapper task

    
    
    $ gradle wrapper
    > Task :wrapper
    
    BUILD SUCCESSFUL in 0s
    1 actionable task: 1 executed

__ |

To make the Wrapper files available to other developers and execution
environments you’ll need to check them into version control. All Wrapper files
including the JAR file are very small in size. Adding the JAR file to version
control is expected. Some organizations do not allow projects to submit binary
files to version control. At the moment there are no alternative options to
the approach.  
  
---|---  
  
The generated Wrapper properties file, `gradle/wrapper/gradle-
wrapper.properties`, stores the information about the Gradle distribution.

  * The server hosting the Gradle distribution.

  * The type of Gradle distribution. By default that’s the `-bin` distribution containing only the runtime but no sample code and documentation.

  * The Gradle version used for executing the build. By default the `wrapper` task picks the exact same Gradle version that was used to generate the Wrapper files.

`gradle/wrapper/gradle-wrapper.properties`

    
    
    distributionUrl=https\://services.gradle.org/distributions/gradle-6.7.1-bin.zip

All of those aspects are configurable at the time of generating the Wrapper
files with the help of the following command line options.

`--gradle-version`

    

The Gradle version used for downloading and executing the Wrapper.

`--distribution-type`

    

The Gradle distribution type used for the Wrapper. Available options are `bin`
and `all`. The default value is `bin`.

`--gradle-distribution-url`

    

The full URL pointing to Gradle distribution ZIP file. Using this option makes
`--gradle-version` and `--distribution-type` obsolete as the URL already
contains this information. This option is extremely valuable if you want to
host the Gradle distribution inside your company’s network.

`--gradle-distribution-sha256-sum`

    

The SHA256 hash sum used for verifying the downloaded Gradle distribution.

Let’s assume the following use case to illustrate the use of the command line
options. You would like to generate the Wrapper with version 6.7.1 and use the
`-all` distribution to enable your IDE to enable code-completion and being
able to navigate to the Gradle source code. Those requirements are captured by
the following command line execution:

Providing options to Wrapper task

    
    
    $ gradle wrapper --gradle-version 6.7.1 --distribution-type all
    > Task :wrapper
    
    BUILD SUCCESSFUL in 0s
    1 actionable task: 1 executed

As a result you can find the desired information in the Wrapper properties
file.

Example: The generated distribution URL

    
    
    distributionUrl=https\://services.gradle.org/distributions/gradle-6.7.1-all.zip

Let’s have a look at the following project layout to illustrate the expected
Wrapper files:

    
    
    .
    ├── a-subproject
    │   └── build.gradle
    ├── settings.gradle
    ├── gradle
    │   └── wrapper
    │       ├── gradle-wrapper.jar
    │       └── gradle-wrapper.properties
    ├── gradlew
    └── gradlew.bat
    
    
    .
    ├── a-subproject
    │   └── build.gradle.kts
    ├── settings.gradle.kts
    ├── gradle
    │   └── wrapper
    │       ├── gradle-wrapper.jar
    │       └── gradle-wrapper.properties
    ├── gradlew
    └── gradlew.bat

A Gradle project typically provides a `settings.gradle(.kts)` file and one
`build.gradle(.kts)` file for each subproject. The Wrapper files live
alongside in the `gradle` directory and the root directory of the project. The
following list explains their purpose.

`gradle-wrapper.jar`

    

The Wrapper JAR file containing code for downloading the Gradle distribution.

`gradle-wrapper.properties`

    

A properties file responsible for configuring the Wrapper runtime behavior
e.g. the Gradle version compatible with this version. Note that more generic
settings, like [configuring the Wrapper to use a
proxy](build_environment.html#sec:accessing_the_web_via_a_proxy), need to go
into a [different
file](build_environment.html#sec:gradle_configuration_properties).

`gradlew`, `gradlew.bat`

    

A shell script and a Windows batch script for executing the build with the
Wrapper.

You can go ahead and execute the build with the Wrapper without having to
install the Gradle runtime. If the project you are working on does not contain
those Wrapper files then you’ll need to generate them.

## Using the Gradle Wrapper

It is recommended to always execute a build with the Wrapper to ensure a
reliable, controlled and standardized execution of the build. Using the
Wrapper looks almost exactly like running the build with a Gradle
installation. Depending on the operating system you either run `gradlew` or
`gradlew.bat` instead of the `gradle` command. The following console output
demonstrate the use of the Wrapper on a Windows machine for a Java-based
project.

Executing the build with the Wrapper batch file

    
    
    $ gradlew.bat build
    Downloading https://services.gradle.org/distributions/gradle-5.0-all.zip
    .....................................................................................
    Unzipping C:\Documents and Settings\Claudia\.gradle\wrapper\dists\gradle-5.0-all\ac27o8rbd0ic8ih41or9l32mv\gradle-5.0-all.zip to C:\Documents and Settings\Claudia\.gradle\wrapper\dists\gradle-5.0-al\ac27o8rbd0ic8ih41or9l32mv
    Set executable permissions for: C:\Documents and Settings\Claudia\.gradle\wrapper\dists\gradle-5.0-all\ac27o8rbd0ic8ih41or9l32mv\gradle-5.0\bin\gradle
    
    BUILD SUCCESSFUL in 12s
    1 actionable task: 1 executed

In case the Gradle distribution is not available on the machine, the Wrapper
will download it and store in the local file system. Any subsequent build
invocation is going to reuse the existing local distribution as long as the
distribution URL in the Gradle properties doesn't change.

__ |

The Wrapper shell script and batch file reside in the root directory of a
single or multi-project Gradle build. You will need to reference the correct
path to those files in case you want to execute the build from a subproject
directory e.g. `../../gradlew tasks`.  
  
---|---  
  
## Upgrading the Gradle Wrapper

Projects will typically want to keep up with the times and upgrade their
Gradle version to benefit from new features and improvements. One way to
upgrade the Gradle version is manually change the `distributionUrl` property
in the Wrapper's `gradle-wrapper.properties` file. The better and recommended
option is to run the `wrapper` task and provide the target Gradle version as
described in Adding the Gradle Wrapper. Using the `wrapper` task ensures that
any optimizations made to the Wrapper shell script or batch file with that
specific Gradle version are applied to the project. As usual, you should
commit the changes to the Wrapper files to version control.

Note that running the wrapper task once will update `gradle-
wrapper.properties` only, but leave the wrapper itself in `gradle-wrapper.jar`
untouched. This is usually fine as new versions of Gradle can be run even with
ancient wrapper files. If you nevertheless want **all** the wrapper files to
be completely up-to-date, you'll need to run the `wrapper` task a second time.

Use the Gradle `wrapper` task to generate the wrapper, specifying a version.
The default is the current version. Once you have upgraded the wrapper, you
can check that it's the version you expect by executing `./gradlew --version`.

Example: Upgrading the Wrapper version

    
    
    $ ./gradlew wrapper --gradle-version 6.7.1
    
    BUILD SUCCESSFUL in 4s
    1 actionable task: 1 executed

## Customizing the Gradle Wrapper

Most users of Gradle are happy with the default runtime behavior of the
Wrapper. However, organizational policies, security constraints or personal
preferences might require you to dive deeper into customizing the Wrapper.
Thankfully, the built-in `wrapper` task exposes numerous options to bend the
runtime behavior to your needs. Most configuration options are exposed by the
underlying task type
[Wrapper](../dsl/org.gradle.api.tasks.wrapper.Wrapper.html).

Let’s assume you grew tired of defining the `-all` distribution type on the
command line every time you upgrade the Wrapper. You can save yourself some
keyboard strokes by re-configuring the `wrapper` task.

Example 1. Customizing the Wrapper task

build.gradle

    
    
    tasks.named('wrapper') {
        distributionType = Wrapper.DistributionType.ALL
    }

build.gradle.kts

    
    
    tasks.named<Wrapper>("wrapper") {
        distributionType = Wrapper.DistributionType.ALL
    }

With the configuration in place running `./gradlew wrapper --gradle-version
6.7.1` is enough to produce a `distributionUrl` value in the Wrapper
properties file that will request the `-all` distribution.

The generated distribution URL

    
    
    distributionUrl=https\://services.gradle.org/distributions/gradle-6.7.1-all.zip

Check out the API documentation for more detail descriptions of the available
configuration options. You can also find various samples for configuring the
Wrapper in the Gradle distribution.

### Authenticated Gradle distribution download

The Gradle `Wrapper` can download Gradle distributions from servers using HTTP
Basic Authentication. This enables you to host the Gradle distribution on a
private protected server. You can specify a username and password in two
different ways depending on your use case: as system properties or directly
embedded in the `distributionUrl`. Credentials in system properties take
precedence over the ones embedded in `distributionUrl`.

__ |

Security Warning

HTTP Basic Authentication should only be used with `HTTPS` URLs and not plain
`HTTP` ones. With Basic Authentication, the user credentials are sent in clear
text.  
  
---|---  
  
Using system properties can be done in the `.gradle/gradle.properties` file in
the user's home directory, or by other means, see [Gradle Configuration
Properties](build_environment.html#sec:gradle_configuration_properties).

Specifying the HTTP Basic Authentication credentials using system properties

    
    
    systemProp.gradle.wrapperUser=username
    systemProp.gradle.wrapperPassword=password

Embedding credentials in the `distributionUrl` in the `gradle/wrapper/gradle-
wrapper.properties` file also works. Please note that this file is to be
committed into your source control system. Shared credentials embedded in
`distributionUrl` should only be used in a controlled environment.

Specifying the HTTP Basic Authentication credentials in `distributionUrl`

    
    
    distributionUrl=https://username:password@somehost/path/to/gradle-distribution.zip

This can be used in conjunction with a proxy, authenticated or not. See
[Accessing the web via a
proxy](build_environment.html#sec:accessing_the_web_via_a_proxy) for more
information on how to configure the `Wrapper` to use a proxy.

### Verification of downloaded Gradle distributions

The Gradle Wrapper allows for verification of the downloaded Gradle
distribution via SHA-256 hash sum comparison. This increases security against
targeted attacks by preventing a man-in-the-middle attacker from tampering
with the downloaded Gradle distribution.

To enable this feature, download the `.sha256` file associated with the Gradle
distribution you want to verify.

#### Downloading the SHA-256 file

You can download the `.sha256` file from the [stable
releases](https://services.gradle.org/distributions/) or [release candidate
and nightly releases](https://services.gradle.org/distributions-snapshots/).
The format of the file is a single line of text that is the SHA-256 hash of
the corresponding zip file.

You can also reference the [list of Gradle distribution
checksums](https://gradle.org/release-checksums/).

#### Configuring checksum verification

Add the downloaded hash sum to `gradle-wrapper.properties` using the
`distributionSha256Sum` property or use `--gradle-distribution-sha256-sum` on
the command-line.

Configuring SHA-256 checksum verification

    
    
    distributionSha256Sum=371cb9fbebbe9880d147f59bab36d61eee122854ef8c9ee1ecf12b82368bcf10

Gradle will report a build failure in case the configured checksum does not
match the checksum found on the server for hosting the distribution. Checksum
Verification is only performed if the configured Wrapper distribution hasn't
been downloaded yet.

## Verifying the integrity of the Gradle Wrapper JAR

The Wrapper JAR is a binary file that will be executed on the computers of
developers and build servers. As with all such files, you should be sure that
it's trustworthy before executing it. Since the Wrapper JAR is usually checked
into a project's version control system, there is the potential for a
malicious actor to replace the original JAR with a modified one by submitting
a pull request that seemingly only upgrades the Gradle version.

To verify the integrity of the Wrapper JAR, Gradle has created a [GitHub
Action](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/gradle-wrapper-validation) that
automatically checks Wrapper JARs in pull requests against a list of known
good checksums. Gradle also publishes the [checksums of all
releases](https://gradle.org/release-checksums/) (except for version 3.3 to
4.0.2, which did not generate reproducible JARs), so you can manually verify
the integrity of the Wrapper JAR.

### Automatically verifying the Gradle Wrapper JAR on GitHub

The [GitHub Action](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/gradle-wrapper-
validation) is released separately from Gradle, so please check its
documentation for how to apply it to your project.

### Manually verifying the Gradle Wrapper JAR

You can manually verify the checksum of the Wrapper JAR to ensure that it has
not been tampered with by running the following commands on one of the major
operating systems:

Manually verifying the checksum of the Wrapper JAR on Linux

    
    
    $ cd gradle/wrapper
    $ curl --location --output gradle-wrapper.jar.sha256 \
           https://services.gradle.org/distributions/gradle-6.7.1-wrapper.jar.sha256
    $ echo "  gradle-wrapper.jar" >> gradle-wrapper.jar.sha256
    $ sha256sum --check gradle-wrapper.jar.sha256
    gradle-wrapper.jar: OK

Manually verifying the checksum of the Wrapper JAR on macOS

    
    
    $ cd gradle/wrapper
    $ curl --location --output gradle-wrapper.jar.sha256 \
           https://services.gradle.org/distributions/gradle-6.7.1-wrapper.jar.sha256
    $ echo "  gradle-wrapper.jar" >> gradle-wrapper.jar.sha256
    $ shasum --check gradle-wrapper.jar.sha256
    gradle-wrapper.jar: OK

Manually verifying the checksum of the Wrapper JAR on Windows (using
PowerShell)

    
    
    > $expected = Invoke-RestMethod -Uri https://services.gradle.org/distributions/gradle-6.7.1-wrapper.jar.sha256
    > $actual = (Get-FileHash gradle\wrapper\gradle-wrapper.jar -Algorithm SHA256).Hash.ToLower()
    > @{$true = 'OK: Checksum match'; $false = "ERROR: Checksum mismatch!`nExpected: $expected`nActual:   $actual"}[$actual -eq $expected]
    OK: Checksum match

### Troubleshooting a checksum mismatch

If the checksum does not match the one you expected, chances are the `wrapper`
task wasn't executed with the upgraded Gradle distribution. Thus, you should
first check whether the actual checksum matches the one of a different Gradle
version. Here are the commands you can run on the major operating systems to
generate the actual checksum of the Wrapper JAR:

Generating the actual checksum of the Wrapper JAR on Linux

    
    
    $ sha256sum gradle/wrapper/gradle-wrapper.jar
    d81e0f23ade952b35e55333dd5f1821585e887c6d24305aeea2fbc8dad564b95  gradle/wrapper/gradle-wrapper.jar

Generating the actual checksum of the Wrapper JAR on macOS

    
    
    $ shasum --algorithm=256 gradle/wrapper/gradle-wrapper.jar
    d81e0f23ade952b35e55333dd5f1821585e887c6d24305aeea2fbc8dad564b95  gradle/wrapper/gradle-wrapper.jar

Generating the actual checksum of the Wrapper JAR on Windows (using
PowerShell)

    
    
    > (Get-FileHash gradle\wrapper\gradle-wrapper.jar -Algorithm SHA256).Hash.ToLower()
    d81e0f23ade952b35e55333dd5f1821585e887c6d24305aeea2fbc8dad564b95

Once you know the actual checksum, check whether it's listed on
<https://gradle.org/release-checksums/>. If it is listed, you have verified
the integrity of the Wrapper JAR. If the version of Gradle that generated the
Wrapper JAR doesn't match the version in `gradle/wrapper/gradle-
wrapper.properties`, it's safe to run the `wrapper` task again to update the
Wrapper JAR.

If the checksum is not listed on the page, the Wrapper JAR might be from a
milestone, release candidate, or nightly build or may have been generated by
Gradle 3.3 to 4.0.2. You should try to find out how it was generated but treat
it as untrustworthy until proven otherwise. If you think the Wrapper JAR was
compromised, please let the Gradle team know by sending an email to
[security@gradle.com](mailto:security@gradle.com).

**Docs**

  * [User Manual](/userguide/userguide.html)
  * [DSL Reference](/dsl/)
  * [Release Notes](/release-notes.html)
  * [Javadoc](/javadoc/)

**News**

  * [Blog](https://blog.gradle.org/)
  * [Newsletter](https://newsletter.gradle.com/)
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/gradle)
  * [Status Page](https://status.gradle.com/)

**Products**

  * [Build Scans](https://gradle.com/build-scans/)
  * [Build Cache](https://gradle.com/build-cache/)
  * [Enterprise Docs](https://gradle.com/enterprise/resources/)

**Get Help**

  * [Forums](https://discuss.gradle.org/c/help-discuss)
  * [GitHub](https://github.com/gradle/)
  * [Training](https://gradle.com/training/)
  * [Services](https://gradle.org/services/)

##### Stay `UP-TO-DATE` on new features and news

By entering your email, you agree to our
[Terms](https://gradle.com/legal/terms-of-service/) and [Privacy
Policy](https://gradle.com/legal/privacy/), including receipt of emails. You
can unsubscribe at any time.

Subscribe

© [Gradle Inc.](https://gradle.com) 2020 All rights reserved.

[ gradle ](/)

[Careers](https://gradle.com/careers/) |
[Privacy](https://gradle.com/legal/privacy/) | [Terms of
Service](https://gradle.com/legal/terms-of-service/) |
[Contact](https://gradle.org/contact/)

