[ Gradle ](https://docs.gradle.org "Gradle Docs")

User Manual

  * Community Open Community Menu

[ Community Home ](https://gradle.org/)

[ Community Forums ](https://discuss.gradle.org/)

[ Community Plugins ](https://plugins.gradle.org)

  * [Training](https://gradle.com/training/)
  * News Open Community Menu

[ Newsletter ](https://newsletter.gradle.com)

[ Blog ](https://blog.gradle.org)

[ Twitter ](https://twitter.com/gradle)

  * [Enterprise](https://gradle.com)
  * [github](https://github.com/gradle/gradle "Gradle on GitHub")

  * [Docs Home](../userguide/userguide.html)
  * [Samples](../samples/index.html)
  * [Release Notes](../release-notes.html)
  * Gradle DSLs and API
    * [Javadoc](../javadoc/index.html?overview-summary.html)
    * [Groovy DSL Reference](../dsl/index.html)
    * [Groovy DSL Primer](../userguide/groovy_build_script_primer.html)
    * [Kotlin DSL API](https://gradle.github.io/kotlin-dsl-docs/api/)
    * [Kotlin DSL Primer](../userguide/kotlin_dsl.html)
    * [Groovy to Kotlin DSL Migration](../userguide/migrating_from_groovy_to_kotlin_dsl.html)

### User Manual

[ PDF ](../userguide/userguide.pdf)

  * [What is Gradle?](../userguide/what_is_gradle.html)
  * [Getting Started](../userguide/getting_started.html)
  * [Installing Gradle](../userguide/installation.html)
  * Upgrading Gradle...
    * [version 6.X to latest](../userguide/upgrading_version_6.html)
    * [version 5.X to 6.0](../userguide/upgrading_version_5.html)
    * [version 4.X to 5.0](../userguide/upgrading_version_4.html)
    * [Gradle's Feature Lifecycle](../userguide/feature_lifecycle.html)
  * Migrating to Gradle...
    * [from Maven](../userguide/migrating_from_maven.html)
    * [from Ant](../userguide/migrating_from_ant.html)
  * [Compatibility Notes](../userguide/compatibility.html)
  * [Troubleshooting Builds](../userguide/troubleshooting.html)

### Running Gradle Builds

  * Customizing Execution
    * [Configuring the Build Environment](../userguide/build_environment.html)
    * [Configuring the Gradle Daemon](../userguide/gradle_daemon.html)
    * [Using Initialization Scripts](../userguide/init_scripts.html)
  * [Executing Multi-Project Builds](../userguide/intro_multi_project_builds.html)
  * [Inspecting Gradle Builds](https://scans.gradle.com/)
  * Using the Build Cache
    * [Enabling and Configuring](../userguide/build_cache.html)
    * [Why use the Build Cache?](../userguide/build_cache_use_cases.html)
    * [Understanding the Impact](../userguide/build_cache_performance.html)
    * [Learning Basic Concepts](../userguide/build_cache_concepts.html)
    * [Caching Java Project](../userguide/caching_java_projects.html)
    * [Caching Android Project](../userguide/caching_android_projects.html)
    * [Debugging Caching Issues](../userguide/build_cache_debugging.html)
    * [Troubleshooting](../userguide/common_caching_problems.html)
  * Optimizing Build Times
    * [Improving Performance of Gradle Builds](../userguide/performance.html)
    * [Using the Configuration Cache](../userguide/configuration_cache.html)

### Authoring Gradle Builds

  * Learning the Basics
    * [Writing Build Scripts](../userguide/tutorial_using_tasks.html)
    * [Working with Tasks](../userguide/more_about_tasks.html)
    * [Learning More About Build Scripts](../userguide/writing_build_scripts.html)
    * [Working with Files](../userguide/working_with_files.html)
    * [Using Gradle Plugins](../userguide/plugins.html)
    * [Understanding the Build Lifecycle](../userguide/build_lifecycle.html)
    * [Working with Logging](../userguide/logging.html)
    * [Avoiding Traps](../userguide/potential_traps.html)
  * Structuring Individual Builds
    * [Creating a Basic Multi-Project Build](../userguide/multi_project_builds.html)
    * [Declaring Dependencies between Subprojects](../userguide/declaring_dependencies_between_subprojects.html)
    * [Sharing Build Logic between Subprojects](../userguide/sharing_build_logic_between_subprojects.html)
    * [Fine Tuning the Project Layout](../userguide/fine_tuning_project_layout.html)
    * [Understanding Configuration and Execution](../userguide/multi_project_configuration_and_execution.html)
  * Structuring Software Products
    * [Structuring large Projects](../userguide/structuring_software_products.html)
    * [Tweaking Project Structure](../userguide/structuring_software_products_details.html)
    * [Composing Builds](../userguide/composite_builds.html)
  * Authoring Sustainable Builds
    * [Organizing Build Logic](../userguide/organizing_gradle_projects.html)
    * [Following Best Practices](../userguide/authoring_maintainable_build_scripts.html)
  * Advanced Techniques
    * [Testing a Build with TestKit](../userguide/test_kit.html)
    * [Using Ant from Gradle](../userguide/ant.html)

### Authoring JVM Builds

  * [Building Java & JVM projects](../userguide/building_java_projects.html)
  * [Testing Java & JVM projects](../userguide/java_testing.html)
  * [Toolchains for Java projects](../userguide/toolchains.html)
  * [Managing Dependencies](../userguide/dependency_management_for_java_projects.html)
  * JVM Plugins
    * [Java Library Plugin](../userguide/java_library_plugin.html)
    * [Java Application Plugin](../userguide/application_plugin.html)
    * [Java Platform Plugin](../userguide/java_platform_plugin.html)
    * [Groovy Plugin](../userguide/groovy_plugin.html)
    * [Scala Plugin](../userguide/scala_plugin.html)

### Authoring C++/Swift Builds

  * [Building C++ projects](../userguide/building_cpp_projects.html)
  * [Testing C++ projects](../userguide/cpp_testing.html)
  * [Building Swift projects](../userguide/building_swift_projects.html)
  * [Testing Swift projects](../userguide/swift_testing.html)

### Working with Dependencies

  * Learning the Basics
    * [What is Dependency Management?](../userguide/core_dependency_management.html)
    * [Declaring Repositories](../userguide/declaring_repositories.html)
    * [Declaring Dependencies](../userguide/declaring_dependencies.html)
    * [Understanding Library and Application Differences](../userguide/library_vs_application.html)
    * [Viewing and Debugging Dependencies](../userguide/viewing_debugging_dependencies.html)
    * [Understanding Resolution](../userguide/dependency_resolution.html)
    * [Verifying dependencies](../userguide/dependency_verification.html)
  * Declaring Versions
    * [Declaring Versions and Ranges](../userguide/single_versions.html)
    * [Declaring Rich Versions](../userguide/rich_versions.html)
    * [Handling Changing Versions](../userguide/dynamic_versions.html)
    * [Locking Versions](../userguide/dependency_locking.html)
  * Controlling Transitives
    * [Upgrading Versions](../userguide/dependency_constraints.html)
    * [Downgrading and Excluding](../userguide/dependency_downgrade_and_exclude.html)
    * [Sharing Versions](../userguide/platforms.html)
    * [Aligning Dependencies](../userguide/dependency_version_alignment.html)
    * [Handling Mutually Exclusive Dependencies](../userguide/dependency_capability_conflict.html)
    * [Fixing Metadata](../userguide/component_metadata_rules.html)
    * [Customizing Resolution](../userguide/resolution_rules.html)
    * [Preventing accidental upgrades](../userguide/resolution_strategy_tuning.html)
  * Producing and Consuming Variants of Libraries
    * [Declaring Capabilities of a Library](../userguide/component_capabilities.html)
    * [Modeling Feature Variants and Optional Dependencies](../userguide/feature_variants.html)
    * [Understanding Variant Selection](../userguide/variant_model.html)
    * [Declaring Variant Attributes](../userguide/variant_attributes.html)
    * [Sharing Outputs of Projects](../userguide/cross_project_publications.html)
    * [Transforming Artifacts](../userguide/artifact_transforms.html)
  * Publishing Libraries
    * [Setting up Publishing](../userguide/publishing_setup.html)
    * [Understanding Gradle Module Metadata](../userguide/publishing_gradle_module_metadata.html)
    * [Signing Artifacts](../userguide/publishing_signing.html)
    * [Customizing Publishing](../userguide/publishing_customization.html)
    * [Maven Publish Plugin](../userguide/publishing_maven.html)
    * [Ivy Publish Plugin](../userguide/publishing_ivy.html)
  * [Terminology](../userguide/dependency_management_terminology.html)

### Extending Gradle

  * Developing Gradle Plugins
    * [Starting Plugin Development](../userguide/custom_plugins.html)
    * [Designing Plugins](../userguide/designing_gradle_plugins.html)
    * [Implementing Plugins](../userguide/implementing_gradle_plugins.html)
    * [Testing Plugins](../userguide/testing_gradle_plugins.html)
    * [Publishing Plugins](../userguide/publishing_gradle_plugins.html)
  * Developing Gradle Tasks
    * [Writing Gradle Task Types](../userguide/custom_tasks.html)
    * [Configuring Tasks Lazily](../userguide/lazy_configuration.html)
    * [Avoiding Unnecessary Task Configuration](../userguide/task_configuration_avoidance.html)
    * [Developing Parallel Tasks](../userguide/worker_api.html)
  * [Writing Custom Gradle Types](../userguide/custom_gradle_types.html)

### Reference

  * [Core Plugins](../userguide/plugin_reference.html)
  * [Command-Line Interface](../userguide/command_line_interface.html)
  * Gradle & Third-party Tools
    * [Third-party Tools](../userguide/third_party_integration.html)
    * [Jenkins](../userguide/jenkins.html)
    * [TeamCity](../userguide/teamcity.html)
    * [Travis CI](../userguide/travis-ci.html)
  * [](../userguide/third_party_integration.html)
  * [The Gradle Wrapper](../userguide/gradle_wrapper.html)
  * [Gradle-managed Directories](../userguide/directory_layout.html)

# Managing Dependencies of JVM Projects

version 6.9-20201126230040+0000

Contents

  * Dissecting a typical build script
  * Declaring module dependencies
  * Using dependency configurations
  * Declaring common Java repositories
  * Publishing artifacts

This chapter explains how to apply basic dependency management concepts to
JVM-based projects. For a detailed introduction to dependency management, see
[dependency management in Gradle](core_dependency_management.html).

## Dissecting a typical build script

Let's have a look at a very simple build script for a JVM-based project. It
applies the [Java Library
plugin](java_library_plugin.html#java_library_plugin) which automatically
introduces a standard project layout, provides tasks for performing typical
work and adequate support for dependency management.

Example 1. Dependency declarations for a JVM-based project

build.gradle

    
    
    plugins {
        id 'java-library'
    }
    
    repositories {
        mavenCentral()
    }
    
    dependencies {
        implementation 'org.hibernate:hibernate-core:3.6.7.Final'
        api 'com.google.guava:guava:23.0'
        testImplementation 'junit:junit:4.+'
    }

build.gradle.kts

    
    
    plugins {
        `java-library`
    }
    
    repositories {
        mavenCentral()
    }
    
    dependencies {
        implementation("org.hibernate:hibernate-core:3.6.7.Final")
        api("com.google.guava:guava:23.0")
        testImplementation("junit:junit:4.+")
    }

The
[Project.dependencies{}](../dsl/org.gradle.api.Project.html#org.gradle.api.Project:dependencies\(groovy.lang.Closure\))
code block declares that Hibernate core 3.6.7.Final is required to compile the
project's production source code. It also states that junit >= 4.0 is required
to compile the project's tests. All dependencies are supposed to be looked up
in the Maven Central repository as defined by
[Project.repositories{}](../dsl/org.gradle.api.Project.html#org.gradle.api.Project:repositories\(groovy.lang.Closure\)).
The following sections explain each aspect in more detail.

## Declaring module dependencies

There are various [types of
dependencies](declaring_dependencies.html#sec:dependency-types) that you can
declare. One such type is a _module dependency_. A [module
dependency](declaring_dependencies.html#sub:module_dependencies) represents a
dependency on a module with a specific version built outside the current
build. Modules are usually stored in a repository, such as Maven Central, a
corporate Maven or Ivy repository, or a directory in the local file system.

To define an module dependency, you add it to a dependency configuration:

Example 2. Definition of a module dependency

build.gradle

    
    
    dependencies {
        implementation 'org.hibernate:hibernate-core:3.6.7.Final'
    }

build.gradle.kts

    
    
    dependencies {
        implementation("org.hibernate:hibernate-core:3.6.7.Final")
    }

To find out more about defining dependencies, have a look at [Declaring
Dependencies](declaring_dependencies.html).

## Using dependency configurations

A [Configuration](../dsl/org.gradle.api.artifacts.Configuration.html) is a
named set of dependencies and artifacts. There are three main purposes for a
_configuration_ :

Declaring dependencies

    

A plugin uses configurations to make it easy for build authors to declare what
other subprojects or external artifacts are needed for various purposes during
the execution of tasks defined by the plugin. For example a plugin may need
the Spring web framework dependency to compile the source code.

Resolving dependencies

    

A plugin uses configurations to find (and possibly download) inputs to the
tasks it defines. For example Gradle needs to download Spring web framework
JAR files from Maven Central.

Exposing artifacts for consumption

    

A plugin uses configurations to define what _artifacts_ it generates for other
projects to consume. For example the project would like to publish its
compiled source code packaged in the JAR file to an in-house Artifactory
repository.

With those three purposes in mind, let's take a look at a few of the [standard
configurations defined by the Java Library
Plugin](java_library_plugin.html#sec:java_library_configurations_graph).

implementation

    

The dependencies required to compile the production source of the project
which _are not_ part of the API exposed by the project. For example the
project uses Hibernate for its internal persistence layer implementation.

api

    

The dependencies required to compile the production source of the project
which _are_ part of the API exposed by the project. For example the project
uses Guava and exposes public interfaces with Guava classes in their method
signatures.

testImplementation

    

The dependencies required to compile and run the test source of the project.
For example the project decided to write test code with the test framework
JUnit.

Various plugins add further standard configurations. You can also define your
own custom configurations in your build via
[Project.configurations{}](../dsl/org.gradle.api.Project.html#org.gradle.api.Project:configurations\(groovy.lang.Closure\)).
See [What are dependency configurations](declaring_dependencies.html#sec:what-
are-dependency-configurations) for the details of defining and customizing
dependency configurations.

## Declaring common Java repositories

How does Gradle know where to find the files for external dependencies? Gradle
looks for them in a _repository_. A repository is a collection of modules,
organized by `group`, `name` and `version`. Gradle understands different
[repository types](declaring_repositories.html#sec:repository-types), such as
Maven and Ivy, and supports various ways of accessing the repository via HTTP
or other protocols.

By default, Gradle does not define any repositories. You need to define at
least one with the help of
[Project.repositories{}](../dsl/org.gradle.api.Project.html#org.gradle.api.Project:repositories\(groovy.lang.Closure\))
before you can use module dependencies. One option is use the Maven Central
repository:

Example 3. Usage of Maven central repository

build.gradle

    
    
    repositories {
        mavenCentral()
    }

build.gradle.kts

    
    
    repositories {
        mavenCentral()
    }

You can also have repositories on the local file system. This works for both
Maven and Ivy repositories.

Example 4. Usage of a local Ivy directory

build.gradle

    
    
    repositories {
        ivy {
            // URL can refer to a local directory
            url "../local-repo"
        }
    }

build.gradle.kts

    
    
    repositories {
        ivy {
            // URL can refer to a local directory
            url = uri("../local-repo")
        }
    }

A project can have multiple repositories. Gradle will look for a dependency in
each repository in the order they are specified, stopping at the first
repository that contains the requested module.

To find out more about defining repositories, have a look at [Declaring
Repositories](declaring_repositories.html).

## Publishing artifacts

To learn more about publishing artifacts, have a look at [publishing
plugins](publishing_setup.html).

**Docs**

  * [User Manual](/userguide/userguide.html)
  * [DSL Reference](/dsl/)
  * [Release Notes](/release-notes.html)
  * [Javadoc](/javadoc/)

**News**

  * [Blog](https://blog.gradle.org/)
  * [Newsletter](https://newsletter.gradle.com/)
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/gradle)
  * [Status Page](https://status.gradle.com/)

**Products**

  * [Build Scans](https://gradle.com/build-scans/)
  * [Build Cache](https://gradle.com/build-cache/)
  * [Enterprise Docs](https://gradle.com/enterprise/resources/)

**Get Help**

  * [Forums](https://discuss.gradle.org/c/help-discuss)
  * [GitHub](https://github.com/gradle/)
  * [Training](https://gradle.com/training/)
  * [Services](https://gradle.org/services/)

##### Stay `UP-TO-DATE` on new features and news

By entering your email, you agree to our
[Terms](https://gradle.com/legal/terms-of-service/) and [Privacy
Policy](https://gradle.com/legal/privacy/), including receipt of emails. You
can unsubscribe at any time.

Subscribe

© [Gradle Inc.](https://gradle.com) 2020 All rights reserved.

[ gradle ](/)

[Careers](https://gradle.com/careers/) |
[Privacy](https://gradle.com/legal/privacy/) | [Terms of
Service](https://gradle.com/legal/terms-of-service/) |
[Contact](https://gradle.org/contact/)

