

[ Gradle ](https://docs.gradle.org "Gradle Docs")

User Manual

  * Community Open Community Menu

[ Community Home ](https://gradle.org/)

[ Community Forums ](https://discuss.gradle.org/)

[ Community Plugins ](https://plugins.gradle.org)

  * [Training](https://gradle.com/training/)
  * News Open Community Menu

[ Newsletter ](https://newsletter.gradle.com)

[ Blog ](https://blog.gradle.org)

[ Twitter ](https://twitter.com/gradle)

  * [Enterprise](https://gradle.com)
  * [github](https://github.com/gradle/gradle "Gradle on GitHub")

  * [Docs Home](../userguide/userguide.html)
  * [Samples](../samples/index.html)
  * [Release Notes](../release-notes.html)
  * Gradle DSLs and API
    * [Javadoc](../javadoc/index.html?overview-summary.html)
    * [Groovy DSL Reference](../dsl/index.html)
    * [Groovy DSL Primer](../userguide/groovy_build_script_primer.html)
    * [Kotlin DSL API](https://gradle.github.io/kotlin-dsl-docs/api/)
    * [Kotlin DSL Primer](../userguide/kotlin_dsl.html)
    * [Groovy to Kotlin DSL Migration](../userguide/migrating_from_groovy_to_kotlin_dsl.html)

### User Manual

[ PDF ](../userguide/userguide.pdf)

  * [What is Gradle?](../userguide/what_is_gradle.html)
  * [Getting Started](../userguide/getting_started.html)
  * [Installing Gradle](../userguide/installation.html)
  * Upgrading Gradle...
    * [version 6.X to latest](../userguide/upgrading_version_6.html)
    * [version 5.X to 6.0](../userguide/upgrading_version_5.html)
    * [version 4.X to 5.0](../userguide/upgrading_version_4.html)
    * [Gradle's Feature Lifecycle](../userguide/feature_lifecycle.html)
  * Migrating to Gradle...
    * [from Maven](../userguide/migrating_from_maven.html)
    * [from Ant](../userguide/migrating_from_ant.html)
  * [Compatibility Notes](../userguide/compatibility.html)
  * [Troubleshooting Builds](../userguide/troubleshooting.html)

### Running Gradle Builds

  * Customizing Execution
    * [Configuring the Build Environment](../userguide/build_environment.html)
    * [Configuring the Gradle Daemon](../userguide/gradle_daemon.html)
    * [Using Initialization Scripts](../userguide/init_scripts.html)
  * [Executing Multi-Project Builds](../userguide/intro_multi_project_builds.html)
  * [Inspecting Gradle Builds](https://scans.gradle.com/)
  * Using the Build Cache
    * [Enabling and Configuring](../userguide/build_cache.html)
    * [Why use the Build Cache?](../userguide/build_cache_use_cases.html)
    * [Understanding the Impact](../userguide/build_cache_performance.html)
    * [Learning Basic Concepts](../userguide/build_cache_concepts.html)
    * [Caching Java Project](../userguide/caching_java_projects.html)
    * [Caching Android Project](../userguide/caching_android_projects.html)
    * [Debugging Caching Issues](../userguide/build_cache_debugging.html)
    * [Troubleshooting](../userguide/common_caching_problems.html)
  * Optimizing Build Times
    * [Improving Performance of Gradle Builds](../userguide/performance.html)
    * [Using the Configuration Cache](../userguide/configuration_cache.html)

### Authoring Gradle Builds

  * Learning the Basics
    * [Writing Build Scripts](../userguide/tutorial_using_tasks.html)
    * [Working with Tasks](../userguide/more_about_tasks.html)
    * [Learning More About Build Scripts](../userguide/writing_build_scripts.html)
    * [Working with Files](../userguide/working_with_files.html)
    * [Using Gradle Plugins](../userguide/plugins.html)
    * [Understanding the Build Lifecycle](../userguide/build_lifecycle.html)
    * [Working with Logging](../userguide/logging.html)
    * [Avoiding Traps](../userguide/potential_traps.html)
  * Structuring Individual Builds
    * [Creating a Basic Multi-Project Build](../userguide/multi_project_builds.html)
    * [Declaring Dependencies between Subprojects](../userguide/declaring_dependencies_between_subprojects.html)
    * [Sharing Build Logic between Subprojects](../userguide/sharing_build_logic_between_subprojects.html)
    * [Fine Tuning the Project Layout](../userguide/fine_tuning_project_layout.html)
    * [Understanding Configuration and Execution](../userguide/multi_project_configuration_and_execution.html)
  * Structuring Software Products
    * [Structuring large Projects](../userguide/structuring_software_products.html)
    * [Tweaking Project Structure](../userguide/structuring_software_products_details.html)
    * [Composing Builds](../userguide/composite_builds.html)
  * Authoring Sustainable Builds
    * [Organizing Build Logic](../userguide/organizing_gradle_projects.html)
    * [Following Best Practices](../userguide/authoring_maintainable_build_scripts.html)
  * Advanced Techniques
    * [Testing a Build with TestKit](../userguide/test_kit.html)
    * [Using Ant from Gradle](../userguide/ant.html)

### Authoring JVM Builds

  * [Building Java & JVM projects](../userguide/building_java_projects.html)
  * [Testing Java & JVM projects](../userguide/java_testing.html)
  * [Toolchains for Java projects](../userguide/toolchains.html)
  * [Managing Dependencies](../userguide/dependency_management_for_java_projects.html)
  * JVM Plugins
    * [Java Library Plugin](../userguide/java_library_plugin.html)
    * [Java Application Plugin](../userguide/application_plugin.html)
    * [Java Platform Plugin](../userguide/java_platform_plugin.html)
    * [Groovy Plugin](../userguide/groovy_plugin.html)
    * [Scala Plugin](../userguide/scala_plugin.html)

### Authoring C++/Swift Builds

  * [Building C++ projects](../userguide/building_cpp_projects.html)
  * [Testing C++ projects](../userguide/cpp_testing.html)
  * [Building Swift projects](../userguide/building_swift_projects.html)
  * [Testing Swift projects](../userguide/swift_testing.html)

### Working with Dependencies

  * Learning the Basics
    * [What is Dependency Management?](../userguide/core_dependency_management.html)
    * [Declaring Repositories](../userguide/declaring_repositories.html)
    * [Declaring Dependencies](../userguide/declaring_dependencies.html)
    * [Understanding Library and Application Differences](../userguide/library_vs_application.html)
    * [Viewing and Debugging Dependencies](../userguide/viewing_debugging_dependencies.html)
    * [Understanding Resolution](../userguide/dependency_resolution.html)
    * [Verifying dependencies](../userguide/dependency_verification.html)
  * Declaring Versions
    * [Declaring Versions and Ranges](../userguide/single_versions.html)
    * [Declaring Rich Versions](../userguide/rich_versions.html)
    * [Handling Changing Versions](../userguide/dynamic_versions.html)
    * [Locking Versions](../userguide/dependency_locking.html)
  * Controlling Transitives
    * [Upgrading Versions](../userguide/dependency_constraints.html)
    * [Downgrading and Excluding](../userguide/dependency_downgrade_and_exclude.html)
    * [Sharing Versions](../userguide/platforms.html)
    * [Aligning Dependencies](../userguide/dependency_version_alignment.html)
    * [Handling Mutually Exclusive Dependencies](../userguide/dependency_capability_conflict.html)
    * [Fixing Metadata](../userguide/component_metadata_rules.html)
    * [Customizing Resolution](../userguide/resolution_rules.html)
    * [Preventing accidental upgrades](../userguide/resolution_strategy_tuning.html)
  * Producing and Consuming Variants of Libraries
    * [Declaring Capabilities of a Library](../userguide/component_capabilities.html)
    * [Modeling Feature Variants and Optional Dependencies](../userguide/feature_variants.html)
    * [Understanding Variant Selection](../userguide/variant_model.html)
    * [Declaring Variant Attributes](../userguide/variant_attributes.html)
    * [Sharing Outputs of Projects](../userguide/cross_project_publications.html)
    * [Transforming Artifacts](../userguide/artifact_transforms.html)
  * Publishing Libraries
    * [Setting up Publishing](../userguide/publishing_setup.html)
    * [Understanding Gradle Module Metadata](../userguide/publishing_gradle_module_metadata.html)
    * [Signing Artifacts](../userguide/publishing_signing.html)
    * [Customizing Publishing](../userguide/publishing_customization.html)
    * [Maven Publish Plugin](../userguide/publishing_maven.html)
    * [Ivy Publish Plugin](../userguide/publishing_ivy.html)
  * [Terminology](../userguide/dependency_management_terminology.html)

### Extending Gradle

  * Developing Gradle Plugins
    * [Starting Plugin Development](../userguide/custom_plugins.html)
    * [Designing Plugins](../userguide/designing_gradle_plugins.html)
    * [Implementing Plugins](../userguide/implementing_gradle_plugins.html)
    * [Testing Plugins](../userguide/testing_gradle_plugins.html)
    * [Publishing Plugins](../userguide/publishing_gradle_plugins.html)
  * Developing Gradle Tasks
    * [Writing Gradle Task Types](../userguide/custom_tasks.html)
    * [Configuring Tasks Lazily](../userguide/lazy_configuration.html)
    * [Avoiding Unnecessary Task Configuration](../userguide/task_configuration_avoidance.html)
    * [Developing Parallel Tasks](../userguide/worker_api.html)
  * [Writing Custom Gradle Types](../userguide/custom_gradle_types.html)

### Reference

  * [Core Plugins](../userguide/plugin_reference.html)
  * [Command-Line Interface](../userguide/command_line_interface.html)
  * Gradle & Third-party Tools
    * [Third-party Tools](../userguide/third_party_integration.html)
    * [Jenkins](../userguide/jenkins.html)
    * [TeamCity](../userguide/teamcity.html)
    * [Travis CI](../userguide/travis-ci.html)
  * [](../userguide/third_party_integration.html)
  * [The Gradle Wrapper](../userguide/gradle_wrapper.html)
  * [Gradle-managed Directories](../userguide/directory_layout.html)

# Writing Build Scripts

version 6.9-20201126230040+0000

Contents

  * The Gradle build language
  * The Project API
  * The script API
  * Declaring variables
  * Configuring arbitrary objects
  * Configuring arbitrary objects using an external script
  * Some Groovy basics
  * Default imports

This chapter looks at some of the details of writing a build script.

## The Gradle build language

Gradle provides a _domain specific language_ , or DSL, for describing builds.
This build language is available in Groovy and Kotlin.

A Groovy build script can contain any Groovy language element.[1] A Kotlin
build script can contain any Kotlin language element. Gradle assumes that each
build script is encoded using UTF-8.

## The Project API

Build scripts describe your build by configuring _projects_. A project is an
abstract concept, but you typically map a Gradle project to a software
component that needs to be built, like a library or an application. Each build
script you have is associated with an object of type
[Project](../dsl/org.gradle.api.Project.html) and as the build script
executes, it configures this `Project`.

In fact, almost all top-level properties and blocks in a build script are part
of the `Project` API. To demonstrate, take a look at this example build script
that prints the name of its project, which is accessed via the
[Project.name](../dsl/org.gradle.api.Project.html#org.gradle.api.Project:name)
property:

Example 1. Accessing property of the Project object

build.gradle

    
    
    println name
    println project.name

build.gradle.kts

    
    
    println(name)
    println(project.name)

Output of **`gradle -q check`**

    
    
    > gradle -q check
    project-api
    project-api

Both `println` statements print out the same property. The first uses the top-
level reference to the `name` property of the `Project` object. The other
statement uses the `project` property available to any build script, which
returns the associated `Project` object. Only if you define a property or a
method which has the same name as a member of the `Project` object, would you
need to use the `project` property.

### Standard project properties

The `Project` object provides some standard properties, which are available in
your build script. The following table lists a few of the commonly used ones.

Table 1. Project Properties Name | Type | Default Value  
---|---|---  
  
`project`

|

[Project](../dsl/org.gradle.api.Project.html)

|

The `Project` instance  
  
`name`

|

`String`

|

The name of the project directory.  
  
`path`

|

`String`

|

The absolute path of the project.  
  
`description`

|

`String`

|

A description for the project.  
  
`projectDir`

|

`File`

|

The directory containing the build script.  
  
`buildDir`

|

`File`

|

`_projectDir_ /build`  
  
`group`

|

`Object`

|

`unspecified`  
  
`version`

|

`Object`

|

`unspecified`  
  
`ant`

|

[AntBuilder](../javadoc/org/gradle/api/AntBuilder.html)

|

An `AntBuilder` instance  
  
__ |

Script with other targets

The _build scripts_ described here target `Project` objects. There are also
[settings scripts](build_lifecycle.html#sec:settings_file) and [init
scripts](init_scripts.html#init_scripts) that respectively target
[Settings](../dsl/org.gradle.api.initialization.Settings.html) and
[Gradle](../dsl/org.gradle.api.invocation.Gradle.html) objects.  
  
---|---  
  
## The script API

When Gradle executes a Groovy build script (`.gradle`), it compiles the script
into a class which implements [Script](../dsl/org.gradle.api.Script.html).
This means that all of the properties and methods declared by the `Script`
interface are available in your script.

When Gradle executes a Kotlin build script (`.gradle.kts`), it compiles the
script into a subclass of [KotlinBuildScript](https://gradle.github.io/kotlin-
dsl-docs/api/org.gradle.kotlin.dsl/-kotlin-build-script/index.html). This
means that all of the visible properties and functions declared by the
`KotlinBuildScript` type are available in your script. Also see the
[KotlinSettingsScript](https://gradle.github.io/kotlin-dsl-
docs/api/org.gradle.kotlin.dsl/-kotlin-settings-script/index.html) and
[KotlinInitScript](https://gradle.github.io/kotlin-dsl-
docs/api/org.gradle.kotlin.dsl/-kotlin-init-script/index.html) types
respectively for settings scripts and init scripts.

## Declaring variables

There are two kinds of variables that can be declared in a build script: local
variables and extra properties.

### Local variables

Local variables are declared with the `def` keyword. They are only visible in
the scope where they have been declared. Local variables are a feature of the
underlying Groovy language.

Local variables are declared with the `val` keyword. They are only visible in
the scope where they have been declared. Local variables are a feature of the
underlying Kotlin language.

Example 2. Using local variables

build.gradle

    
    
    def dest = 'dest'
    
    tasks.register('copy', Copy) {
        from 'source'
        into dest
    }

build.gradle.kts

    
    
    val dest = "dest"
    
    tasks.register<Copy>("copy") {
        from("source")
        into(dest)
    }

### Extra properties

All enhanced objects in Gradle's domain model can hold extra user-defined
properties. This includes, but is not limited to, projects, tasks, and source
sets.

Extra properties can be added, read and set via the owning object's `ext`
property. Alternatively, an `ext` block can be used to add multiple properties
at once.

Extra properties can be added, read and set via the owning object's `extra`
property. Alternatively, they can be addressed via Kotlin delegated properties
using `by extra`.

Example 3. Using extra properties

build.gradle

    
    
    plugins {
        id 'java-library'
    }
    
    ext {
        springVersion = "3.1.0.RELEASE"
        emailNotification = "build@master.org"
    }
    
    sourceSets.all { ext.purpose = null }
    
    sourceSets {
        main {
            purpose = "production"
        }
        test {
            purpose = "test"
        }
        plugin {
            purpose = "production"
        }
    }
    
    tasks.register('printProperties') {
        doLast {
            println springVersion
            println emailNotification
            sourceSets.matching { it.purpose == "production" }.each { println it.name }
        }
    }

build.gradle.kts

    
    
    plugins {
        id("java-library")
    }
    
    val springVersion by extra("3.1.0.RELEASE")
    val emailNotification by extra { "build@master.org" }
    
    sourceSets.all { extra["purpose"] = null }
    
    sourceSets {
        main {
            extra["purpose"] = "production"
        }
        test {
            extra["purpose"] = "test"
        }
        create("plugin") {
            extra["purpose"] = "production"
        }
    }
    
    tasks.register("printProperties") {
        doLast {
            println(springVersion)
            println(emailNotification)
            sourceSets.matching { it.extra["purpose"] == "production" }.forEach { println(it.name) }
        }
    }

Output of **`gradle -q printProperties`**

    
    
    > gradle -q printProperties
    3.1.0.RELEASE
    build@master.org
    main
    plugin

In this example, an `ext` block adds two extra properties to the `project`
object. Additionally, a property named `purpose` is added to each source set
by setting `ext.purpose` to `null` (`null` is a permissible value). Once the
properties have been added, they can be read and set like predefined
properties.

In this example, two extra properties are added to the `project` object using
`by extra`. Additionally, a property named `purpose` is added to each source
set by setting `extra["purpose"]` to `null` (`null` is a permissible value).
Once the properties have been added, they can be read and set on `extra`.

By requiring special syntax for adding a property, Gradle can fail fast when
an attempt is made to set a (predefined or extra) property but the property is
misspelled or does not exist. Extra properties can be accessed from anywhere
their owning object can be accessed, giving them a wider scope than local
variables. Extra properties on a project are visible from its subprojects.

For further details on extra properties and their API, see the
[ExtraPropertiesExtension](../dsl/org.gradle.api.plugins.ExtraPropertiesExtension.html)
class in the API documentation.

## Configuring arbitrary objects

You can configure arbitrary objects in the following very readable way.

Example 4. Configuring arbitrary objects

build.gradle

    
    
    import java.text.FieldPosition
    
    tasks.register('configure') {
        doLast {
            def pos = configure(new FieldPosition(10)) {
                beginIndex = 1
                endIndex = 5
            }
            println pos.beginIndex
            println pos.endIndex
        }
    }

build.gradle.kts

    
    
    import java.text.FieldPosition
    
    tasks.register("configure") {
        doLast {
            val pos = FieldPosition(10).apply {
                beginIndex = 1
                endIndex = 5
            }
            println(pos.beginIndex)
            println(pos.endIndex)
        }
    }

Output of **`gradle -q configure`**

    
    
    > gradle -q configure
    1
    5

## Configuring arbitrary objects using an external script

You can also configure arbitrary objects using an external script.

__ |

Only supported from a Groovy script

Configuring arbitrary objects using an external script is not yet supported by
the Kotlin DSL. See [gradle/kotlin-dsl#659](https://github.com/gradle/kotlin-
dsl/issues/659) for more information.  
  
---|---  
  
Example 5. Configuring arbitrary objects using a script

build.gradle

    
    
    tasks.register('configure') {
        doLast {
            def pos = new java.text.FieldPosition(10)
            // Apply the script
            apply from: 'other.gradle', to: pos
            println pos.beginIndex
            println pos.endIndex
        }
    }

other.gradle

    
    
    // Set properties.
    beginIndex = 1
    endIndex = 5

Output of `gradle -q configure`

    
    
    > gradle -q configure
    1
    5

## Some Groovy basics

__ |  Looking for some Kotlin basics, the [Kotlin reference
documentation](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/reference/) and [Kotlin
Koans](https://kotlinlang.org/docs/tutorials/koans.html) should be useful to
you.  
---|---  
  
The [Groovy language](https://docs.groovy-
lang.org/latest/html/documentation/index.html) provides plenty of features for
creating DSLs, and the Gradle build language takes advantage of these.
Understanding how the build language works will help you when you write your
build script, and in particular, when you start to write custom plugins and
tasks.

### Groovy JDK

Groovy adds lots of useful methods to the standard Java classes. For example,
`Iterable` gets an `each` method, which iterates over the elements of the
`Iterable`:

Example 6. Groovy JDK methods

build.gradle

    
    
    // Iterable gets an each() method
    configurations.runtimeClasspath.each { File f -> println f }

Have a look at <https://groovy-lang.org/gdk.html> for more details.

### Property accessors

Groovy automatically converts a property reference into a call to the
appropriate getter or setter method.

Example 7. Property accessors

build.gradle

    
    
    // Using a getter method
    println project.buildDir
    println getProject().getBuildDir()
    
    // Using a setter method
    project.buildDir = 'target'
    getProject().setBuildDir('target')

### Optional parentheses on method calls

Parentheses are optional for method calls.

Example 8. Method call without parentheses

build.gradle

    
    
    test.systemProperty 'some.prop', 'value'
    test.systemProperty('some.prop', 'value')

### List and map literals

Groovy provides some shortcuts for defining `List` and `Map` instances. Both
kinds of literals are straightforward, but map literals have some interesting
twists.

For instance, the “`apply`” method (where you typically apply plugins)
actually takes a map parameter. However, when you have a line like “`apply
plugin:'java'`”, you aren't actually using a map literal, you're actually
using “named parameters”, which have almost exactly the same syntax as a map
literal (without the wrapping brackets). That named parameter list gets
converted to a map when the method is called, but it doesn't start out as a
map.

Example 9. List and map literals

build.gradle

    
    
    // List literal
    test.includes = ['org/gradle/api/**', 'org/gradle/internal/**']
    
    List<String> list = new ArrayList<String>()
    list.add('org/gradle/api/**')
    list.add('org/gradle/internal/**')
    test.includes = list
    
    // Map literal.
    Map<String, String> map = [key1:'value1', key2: 'value2']
    
    // Groovy will coerce named arguments
    // into a single map argument
    apply plugin: 'java'

### Closures as the last parameter in a method

The Gradle DSL uses closures in many places. You can find out more about
closures [here](https://docs.groovy-
lang.org/latest/html/documentation/index.html#_closures). When the last
parameter of a method is a closure, you can place the closure after the method
call:

Example 10. Closure as method parameter

build.gradle

    
    
    repositories {
        println "in a closure"
    }
    repositories() { println "in a closure" }
    repositories({ println "in a closure" })

### Closure delegate

Each closure has a `delegate` object, which Groovy uses to look up variable
and method references which are not local variables or parameters of the
closure. Gradle uses this for _configuration closures_ , where the `delegate`
object is set to the object to be configured.

Example 11. Closure delegates

build.gradle

    
    
    dependencies {
        assert delegate == project.dependencies
        testImplementation('junit:junit:4.13')
        delegate.testImplementation('junit:junit:4.13')
    }

## Default imports

To make build scripts more concise, Gradle automatically adds a set of import
statements to the Gradle scripts. This means that instead of using `throw new
org.gradle.api.tasks.StopExecutionException()` you can just type `throw new
StopExecutionException()` instead.

Listed below are the imports added to each script:

Gradle default imports

    
    
    import org.gradle.*
    import org.gradle.api.*
    import org.gradle.api.artifacts.*
    import org.gradle.api.artifacts.component.*
    import org.gradle.api.artifacts.dsl.*
    import org.gradle.api.artifacts.ivy.*
    import org.gradle.api.artifacts.maven.*
    import org.gradle.api.artifacts.query.*
    import org.gradle.api.artifacts.repositories.*
    import org.gradle.api.artifacts.result.*
    import org.gradle.api.artifacts.transform.*
    import org.gradle.api.artifacts.type.*
    import org.gradle.api.artifacts.verification.*
    import org.gradle.api.attributes.*
    import org.gradle.api.attributes.java.*
    import org.gradle.api.capabilities.*
    import org.gradle.api.component.*
    import org.gradle.api.credentials.*
    import org.gradle.api.distribution.*
    import org.gradle.api.distribution.plugins.*
    import org.gradle.api.execution.*
    import org.gradle.api.file.*
    import org.gradle.api.initialization.*
    import org.gradle.api.initialization.definition.*
    import org.gradle.api.initialization.dsl.*
    import org.gradle.api.initialization.resolve.*
    import org.gradle.api.invocation.*
    import org.gradle.api.java.archives.*
    import org.gradle.api.jvm.*
    import org.gradle.api.logging.*
    import org.gradle.api.logging.configuration.*
    import org.gradle.api.model.*
    import org.gradle.api.plugins.*
    import org.gradle.api.plugins.antlr.*
    import org.gradle.api.plugins.catalog.*
    import org.gradle.api.plugins.quality.*
    import org.gradle.api.plugins.scala.*
    import org.gradle.api.provider.*
    import org.gradle.api.publish.*
    import org.gradle.api.publish.ivy.*
    import org.gradle.api.publish.ivy.plugins.*
    import org.gradle.api.publish.ivy.tasks.*
    import org.gradle.api.publish.maven.*
    import org.gradle.api.publish.maven.plugins.*
    import org.gradle.api.publish.maven.tasks.*
    import org.gradle.api.publish.plugins.*
    import org.gradle.api.publish.tasks.*
    import org.gradle.api.reflect.*
    import org.gradle.api.reporting.*
    import org.gradle.api.reporting.components.*
    import org.gradle.api.reporting.dependencies.*
    import org.gradle.api.reporting.dependents.*
    import org.gradle.api.reporting.model.*
    import org.gradle.api.reporting.plugins.*
    import org.gradle.api.resources.*
    import org.gradle.api.services.*
    import org.gradle.api.specs.*
    import org.gradle.api.tasks.*
    import org.gradle.api.tasks.ant.*
    import org.gradle.api.tasks.application.*
    import org.gradle.api.tasks.bundling.*
    import org.gradle.api.tasks.compile.*
    import org.gradle.api.tasks.diagnostics.*
    import org.gradle.api.tasks.incremental.*
    import org.gradle.api.tasks.javadoc.*
    import org.gradle.api.tasks.options.*
    import org.gradle.api.tasks.scala.*
    import org.gradle.api.tasks.testing.*
    import org.gradle.api.tasks.testing.junit.*
    import org.gradle.api.tasks.testing.junitplatform.*
    import org.gradle.api.tasks.testing.testng.*
    import org.gradle.api.tasks.util.*
    import org.gradle.api.tasks.wrapper.*
    import org.gradle.authentication.*
    import org.gradle.authentication.aws.*
    import org.gradle.authentication.http.*
    import org.gradle.build.event.*
    import org.gradle.buildinit.plugins.*
    import org.gradle.buildinit.tasks.*
    import org.gradle.caching.*
    import org.gradle.caching.configuration.*
    import org.gradle.caching.http.*
    import org.gradle.caching.local.*
    import org.gradle.concurrent.*
    import org.gradle.external.javadoc.*
    import org.gradle.ide.visualstudio.*
    import org.gradle.ide.visualstudio.plugins.*
    import org.gradle.ide.visualstudio.tasks.*
    import org.gradle.ide.xcode.*
    import org.gradle.ide.xcode.plugins.*
    import org.gradle.ide.xcode.tasks.*
    import org.gradle.ivy.*
    import org.gradle.jvm.*
    import org.gradle.jvm.application.scripts.*
    import org.gradle.jvm.application.tasks.*
    import org.gradle.jvm.platform.*
    import org.gradle.jvm.plugins.*
    import org.gradle.jvm.tasks.*
    import org.gradle.jvm.tasks.api.*
    import org.gradle.jvm.test.*
    import org.gradle.jvm.toolchain.*
    import org.gradle.language.*
    import org.gradle.language.assembler.*
    import org.gradle.language.assembler.plugins.*
    import org.gradle.language.assembler.tasks.*
    import org.gradle.language.base.*
    import org.gradle.language.base.artifact.*
    import org.gradle.language.base.compile.*
    import org.gradle.language.base.plugins.*
    import org.gradle.language.base.sources.*
    import org.gradle.language.c.*
    import org.gradle.language.c.plugins.*
    import org.gradle.language.c.tasks.*
    import org.gradle.language.coffeescript.*
    import org.gradle.language.cpp.*
    import org.gradle.language.cpp.plugins.*
    import org.gradle.language.cpp.tasks.*
    import org.gradle.language.java.*
    import org.gradle.language.java.artifact.*
    import org.gradle.language.java.plugins.*
    import org.gradle.language.java.tasks.*
    import org.gradle.language.javascript.*
    import org.gradle.language.jvm.*
    import org.gradle.language.jvm.plugins.*
    import org.gradle.language.jvm.tasks.*
    import org.gradle.language.nativeplatform.*
    import org.gradle.language.nativeplatform.tasks.*
    import org.gradle.language.objectivec.*
    import org.gradle.language.objectivec.plugins.*
    import org.gradle.language.objectivec.tasks.*
    import org.gradle.language.objectivecpp.*
    import org.gradle.language.objectivecpp.plugins.*
    import org.gradle.language.objectivecpp.tasks.*
    import org.gradle.language.plugins.*
    import org.gradle.language.rc.*
    import org.gradle.language.rc.plugins.*
    import org.gradle.language.rc.tasks.*
    import org.gradle.language.routes.*
    import org.gradle.language.scala.*
    import org.gradle.language.scala.plugins.*
    import org.gradle.language.scala.tasks.*
    import org.gradle.language.scala.toolchain.*
    import org.gradle.language.swift.*
    import org.gradle.language.swift.plugins.*
    import org.gradle.language.swift.tasks.*
    import org.gradle.language.twirl.*
    import org.gradle.maven.*
    import org.gradle.model.*
    import org.gradle.nativeplatform.*
    import org.gradle.nativeplatform.platform.*
    import org.gradle.nativeplatform.plugins.*
    import org.gradle.nativeplatform.tasks.*
    import org.gradle.nativeplatform.test.*
    import org.gradle.nativeplatform.test.cpp.*
    import org.gradle.nativeplatform.test.cpp.plugins.*
    import org.gradle.nativeplatform.test.cunit.*
    import org.gradle.nativeplatform.test.cunit.plugins.*
    import org.gradle.nativeplatform.test.cunit.tasks.*
    import org.gradle.nativeplatform.test.googletest.*
    import org.gradle.nativeplatform.test.googletest.plugins.*
    import org.gradle.nativeplatform.test.plugins.*
    import org.gradle.nativeplatform.test.tasks.*
    import org.gradle.nativeplatform.test.xctest.*
    import org.gradle.nativeplatform.test.xctest.plugins.*
    import org.gradle.nativeplatform.test.xctest.tasks.*
    import org.gradle.nativeplatform.toolchain.*
    import org.gradle.nativeplatform.toolchain.plugins.*
    import org.gradle.normalization.*
    import org.gradle.platform.base.*
    import org.gradle.platform.base.binary.*
    import org.gradle.platform.base.component.*
    import org.gradle.platform.base.plugins.*
    import org.gradle.play.*
    import org.gradle.play.distribution.*
    import org.gradle.play.platform.*
    import org.gradle.play.plugins.*
    import org.gradle.play.plugins.ide.*
    import org.gradle.play.tasks.*
    import org.gradle.play.toolchain.*
    import org.gradle.plugin.devel.*
    import org.gradle.plugin.devel.plugins.*
    import org.gradle.plugin.devel.tasks.*
    import org.gradle.plugin.management.*
    import org.gradle.plugin.use.*
    import org.gradle.plugins.ear.*
    import org.gradle.plugins.ear.descriptor.*
    import org.gradle.plugins.ide.*
    import org.gradle.plugins.ide.api.*
    import org.gradle.plugins.ide.eclipse.*
    import org.gradle.plugins.ide.idea.*
    import org.gradle.plugins.javascript.base.*
    import org.gradle.plugins.javascript.coffeescript.*
    import org.gradle.plugins.javascript.envjs.*
    import org.gradle.plugins.javascript.envjs.browser.*
    import org.gradle.plugins.javascript.envjs.http.*
    import org.gradle.plugins.javascript.envjs.http.simple.*
    import org.gradle.plugins.javascript.jshint.*
    import org.gradle.plugins.javascript.rhino.*
    import org.gradle.plugins.signing.*
    import org.gradle.plugins.signing.signatory.*
    import org.gradle.plugins.signing.signatory.pgp.*
    import org.gradle.plugins.signing.type.*
    import org.gradle.plugins.signing.type.pgp.*
    import org.gradle.process.*
    import org.gradle.swiftpm.*
    import org.gradle.swiftpm.plugins.*
    import org.gradle.swiftpm.tasks.*
    import org.gradle.testing.base.*
    import org.gradle.testing.base.plugins.*
    import org.gradle.testing.jacoco.plugins.*
    import org.gradle.testing.jacoco.tasks.*
    import org.gradle.testing.jacoco.tasks.rules.*
    import org.gradle.testkit.runner.*
    import org.gradle.vcs.*
    import org.gradle.vcs.git.*
    import org.gradle.work.*
    import org.gradle.workers.*

* * *

1. Any language element except for statement labels. 

**Docs**

  * [User Manual](/userguide/userguide.html)
  * [DSL Reference](/dsl/)
  * [Release Notes](/release-notes.html)
  * [Javadoc](/javadoc/)

**News**

  * [Blog](https://blog.gradle.org/)
  * [Newsletter](https://newsletter.gradle.com/)
  * [Twitter](https://twitter.com/gradle)
  * [Status Page](https://status.gradle.com/)

**Products**

  * [Build Scans](https://gradle.com/build-scans/)
  * [Build Cache](https://gradle.com/build-cache/)
  * [Enterprise Docs](https://gradle.com/enterprise/resources/)

**Get Help**

  * [Forums](https://discuss.gradle.org/c/help-discuss)
  * [GitHub](https://github.com/gradle/)
  * [Training](https://gradle.com/training/)
  * [Services](https://gradle.org/services/)

##### Stay `UP-TO-DATE` on new features and news

By entering your email, you agree to our
[Terms](https://gradle.com/legal/terms-of-service/) and [Privacy
Policy](https://gradle.com/legal/privacy/), including receipt of emails. You
can unsubscribe at any time.

Subscribe

© [Gradle Inc.](https://gradle.com) 2020 All rights reserved.

[ gradle ](/)

[Careers](https://gradle.com/careers/) |
[Privacy](https://gradle.com/legal/privacy/) | [Terms of
Service](https://gradle.com/legal/terms-of-service/) |
[Contact](https://gradle.org/contact/)

